---
title: "E58-0703 - © SEMI 1997, 2003..."
description: "SEMI标准文档"
sidebar_label: "E58-0703 - © SEMI 1997, 2003..."
sidebar_position: 45
tags: ['SEMI', 'Standard']
custom_props:
  source_type: 'pdf'
  source_file: 'semi-chapter-045.pdf'
  chapter: 45
  page_count: 50
---

import PdfDownloadCard from '@site/src/components/PdfDownloadCard';

<PdfDownloadCard
  pdfLink="/pdfs/semi/045.pdf"
  pdfSize="N/A"
  title="E58-0703 - © SEMI 1997, 2003..."
  description="SEMI标准文档，共50页"
/>



&lt;!-- Page 1 --&gt;

SEMI E54.16-0705 © SEMI 2005 46 Table 96 Assembly-EPD#4 Object Instance Network Variables Assembly-EPD#4Profile ID = 180.97, Instance ID = 01SequenceNumberName Storage Class SDM Tag Standard NV or CP Data Type 1 Data File A1 LonMark file transfer NVs and messaginginterface. Table 97 Assembly-EPD#4 Object Instance Network Services Assembly-EPD#4Profile ID = 180.97, Instance ID = 01ServiceRequest CodeService Name SDM Tag Request Parameters Result Parameters -- No Additional Services Defined NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standards set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturer's instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature, respecting any materials or equipment mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change withoutnotice.By publication of this standard, Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any items mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 2 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 20051 SEMI E54.17-0705SPECIFICATION OF SENSOR/ACTUATOR NETWORK FOR A-LINK This specification was technically approved by the global Information & Control Committee. This editionwas approved for publication by the global Audits and Reviews Subcommittee on May 20, 2005. It wasavailable at www.semi.org in June 2005 and on CD-ROM in July 2005. 1 Purpose1.1 This document defines a communication specification based on the A-LINK protocol to enable communicationsbetween intelligent devices on a sensor/actuator network (SAN) that operate according to SEMI E54 device modelson semiconductor manufacturing equipment.1.2 This document gives interoperability with SEMI E54 common/specific device model based Sensor/Actuatordevices. 2 Scope2.1 This document specifies how Sensor / Actuator / Controller devices interoperate on the network specific for theA-LINK Public specification referenced in the 4, as a part of equipments control system.2.2 This document defines relation with main part of SEMI E54 including Common Device Model (CDM) andexisting Specific Device Models (SDMs). This document is to be used with the CDM and one or more SDMs, aswell as the A-LINK Public Specification.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to address safety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine theapplicability of regulatory or other limitations prior to use. 3 Limitations3.1 This document specifies a semiconductor equipment SAN based only A-LINK and is a companion document tothe A-LINK specification; therefore a complete specification of this standard includes the A-LINK specifications.There are other semiconductor SAN communication options. The specifications for these options are not includedhere.3.2 This standard specifies enhancements that provide additional capability over and above those currently requiredby A-LINK. In order to avoid document inconsistency problem, information in the A-LINK specification that relatesto this standard is not repeated in this document. This document is limited to describing enhancements or limitationsto the A-LINK specification that are imposed by this standard.3.3 A complete specification of the conformance testing procedure shall include the A-LINK protocol conformancetesting specification. Conformance testing shall also include enhancements and limitations to the A-LINKspecification required by this standard. 4 Referenced Standards and Documents4.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E39  Object Services Standard: Concepts, Behavior, and ServicesSEMI E54.1  Standard for Sensor/Actuator Network Common Device ModelSEMI E54.3  Specification for Sensor/Actuator Network Specific Device Model for Mass Flow DeviceSEMI E54.10  Specification for Sensor/Actuator Network Specific Device Model for an In-situ Particle MonitorDeviceSEMI E54.11  Specific Device Model for Endpoint Devices4.2 OSI StandardISO 7498 OSI  Basic Reference Model for Open Systems Interconnection

&lt;!-- Page 3 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 2005 2 4.3 A-LINK Documents 1 A-LINK Public Specification ver. 1.2  Basic Reference Model for Open Systems InterconnectionNOTICE: Unless otherwise indicated, all documents cited shall be the latest published versions. 5 Terminology5.1 Abbreviations and Acronyms5.1.1 AUF  A-LINK User Forum5.1.2 CDM  Common Device Model5.1.3 NCS  Network Communication Standard5.1.4 OSI  Basic Reference Model for Open Systems Interconnection (ISO 7498)5.1.5 PHY  Physical Layer5.1.6 SAN  Sensor/Actuator Network5.1.7 SDM  Specific Device Model5.1.8 UI  User Interface5.2 This section includes the terms defined in SEMI E54.1 Sensor/Actuator Network Common Device Model.5.2.1 Attribute5.2.2 Behavior5.2.3 Byte5.2.4 Class5.2.5 Common Device Model5.2.6 Device5.2.7 Device Manager (DM) Object5.2.8 Device Model5.2.9 Instance5.2.10 Network Communication Standard5.2.11 Object5.2.12 Sensor, Actuator and Controller (SAC) Object5.2.13 Service5.2.14 Specific Device Model5.2.15 state diagram5.3 Terminology Defined in A-LINK5.3.1 AUF  A-LINK User Forum. 1 A kind of consortium for A-LINK users to recommend improvement to A-LINK trade organization2, share A-LINK applications, provide A-LINK compliance test and etc.5.3.2 AN MS  a station that accesses and exchanges data by polling its assigned Networked-Slave stations.5.3.3 AN SS  a station that is managed and accessed by AN MS. 1 http://www.a-linkuf.com2 http://www.algosystem.co.jp

&lt;!-- Page 4 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 20053 5.3.4 Device Profile  a kind of electric table to provide the characteristic features of a device includingconfiguration and capabilities.5.3.5 Service Access Element  an addressable location in a device for the directing of service requests.5.3.6 Data Exchange  a capability to communicate such data for a device as raw/processed sensed data andvariable settings.5.3.7 Directive  a capability to instruct such basic functions to a device as reset or abort.5.3.8 DP Facility  a capability to manage diagnostic matters.5.3.9 Unite Inventory  a capability to realize and communicate the Device Profile.5.3.10 Unite States  a capability to communicate state of a device. 6 Communication Protocol High Level Structure6.1 In a typical remote I/O configuration, single master architectures are used to optimize response times. Incomplicated applications, multi-master architectures are also possible. A-LINK uses the polling principle forcommunication.6.1.1 Message transfer is organized in cycles. A message cycle mainly consists of a request-frame followed by acorresponding acknowledge/response-frame of the addressed station. An exception to this is the global-controlfunction for synchronization and coordination of several remote I/O stations.6.1.2 A brief description of the A-LINK protocol as it relates to the ISO 7498 OSI model follows in the sectionsbelow. For protocol efficiency, A-LINK does not define layers 3 to 7. However, since the OSI model specifiesLayer 7 as the interface between the Application Process and the communication stack, it is appropriate to discussseveral aspects of the A-LINK standard at this level.NOTE 1: The information contained in this section is for reference only. It in no way represents specifications for A-LINK. Seerelated documentation for these specifications.6.2 Physical Layer  Layer 16.2.1 The bottom Physical Layer is established by RS-485. See the A-LINK standard for more information fordetail.6.3 Data Link Layer  Layer 26.3.1 Data Transfer6.3.1.1 The Data Link Layer provides the functions for sending and receiving data over the network. Data Elementsare packaged, delivered, and checked. Acknowledgements, responses, retries, and timeouts are used to guardagainst Line Protocol Errors (e.g., frame, overrun, and parity) and Transmission Protocol Errors (e.g., start and enddelimiters, frame check, frame length, and response times).6.4 Network Layer  Layer 36.4.1 There is no distinct network layer.6.5 Transport Layer  Layer 46.5.1 There is no distinct transport layer. Such functions as disassembling of message into transport unit andreassembling for transportation are implemented in the Application Layer.6.6 Session Layer  Layer 56.6.1 There is no distinct session layer.6.7 Presentation Layer  Layer 66.7.1 There is no distinct presentation layer. Such functions as data representation conformance are implemented inthe Application Layer.6.8 Application Layer  Layer 7

&lt;!-- Page 5 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 2005 4 6.8.1 The Device shall comply with A-LINK application layer specification for defining and addressing objectsincluding functions deferred in lower layers as described above.6.8.2 User Interface (UI)6.8.2.1 The UI provides the user with access to functionality of the A-LINK protocol as a part of application layer. 7 Required Object Types7.1 This section describes a general mapping of the SEMI SAN Object Model to the A-LINK environment.Component definitions are clarified and the mapping of Attributes, Services, and Behaviors are specified.7.2 Object Model7.2.1 The Object Model defined in the CDM is represented in the A-LINK NCS. Especially the DM, SAC, andabstract or fundamental application objects are mapped.7.2.2 The Application Objects associated with the SDM standards are mapped in A-LINK User Forum PublicSpecification documents. 9 specifies the mapping of SDM Objects in A-LINK.7.3 Component Mapping Summary7.3.1 Table 1 provides a summary of the components of the CDM object model as they relate to the components ofA-LINK.7.4 Objects7.4.1 The required objects of the CDM are identified here. Additional objects that are contained in the SDM aregiven identifiers in the Device Profile. 9 specifies additional mapping information.7.4.2 Table 1 lists the Object Identifiers specified for use in protocol messages.Table 1 Object IdentifiersObject Name A-LINK Class/Object ID CDM Object ID Tag CDM Attribute/Service ID Tag PrefixDevice Manager 1 DmI0 DmSAC 2 SacI0 SacAssembly 3 AsmIn AsmLocal Link 4 LnkIn LnkSensorAI 9 SenIn SaiSensorEI 10 SenIn SeiSensorBI 11 SenIn SbiSensorBITH 12 SenIn SbithActuatorAO 17 ActIn AaoActuatorEO 18 ActIn AeoActuatorBO 19 ActIn AboController 24 CntIn CApplication Objects &gt;31 - - 7.5 Attributes7.5.1 All attributes are accessible via Get\_Attribute and Set\_Attribute services defined in the sections below.Attributes are also accessible via different A-LINK peculiar instructions which are additionally mapped in thisdocument based on attribute type.7.5.1.1 The attributes of the DM object consists of distinctive information, states, and setups. Distinctiveinformation attributes are retrieved with the Unite Inventory. Inquiring state attributes are provided by getting statusdata. Setup attributes are written by setting configuration data.

&lt;!-- Page 6 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 20055 7.5.1.2 The attributes of Application objects are divided into two types: Input/Output, settings, status andConfiguration. Input/Output attributes are acquired from or given through Data Exchange capability of A-LINK.Configurable attributes can be retrieved with Unite Inventory capability.7.5.1.3 See Table 2 for a list of DM attributes and their related alternative access instructions.7.5.1.4 A-LINK Settings7.5.1.4.1 Attributes related to general settings are accessed through Unite Inventory communication.7.5.1.4.2 Structure of the Unite Inventory for a given SDM is beyond the scope of this document. The A-LINKTrade Organization is responsible for the management of this information.7.5.1.5 A-LINK States and Diagnostics7.5.1.5.1 Attributes related to device state are categorized and handled as Unite State information. For example twoattributes of the DM object listed in Table 2 that are identified with an alternative access instruction of Unite Statesare mapped into the A-LINK Unite States as specified in this section. See the A-LINK standard for a description ofthe Unite States.7.5.1.5.2 These two attributes are mapped into the Unite State data structure. Additional diagnostic data may beincluded with DP Facility as specified by A-LINK.7.5.2 A-LINK I/O Data Exchange7.5.2.1 Input/Output attributes of the Application objects are communicated using the I/O Data Exchangeinstruction of A-LINK. This instruction is described in the A-LINK standard. A list of which attributes areaccessible with this instruction is included in the A-LINK Device Profile for a given device type.7.5.3 A-LINK Device Configuration7.5.3.1 Configuration attributes of the DM object and Application objects are communicated using the UniteInventory Service of A-LINK. This service is described in the A-LINK standard. A list of which Application objectattributes are accessible with this instruction is included in the A-LINK Device Profile for a given device type.7.5.3.2 Attribute Identifiers7.5.3.2.1 Every class object specified in the CDM uses attribute identifier tags to identify its attributes. The tags areformed with alphabetic part of its object identifier tag, a character A for impressing attribute and a numericalidentifier of the attribute. The numerical identifier is assigned to the Attribute ID used in the A-LINK NCS forclasses DM, SAC, Assembly, Local Link, AE, S, A and C, as described in following tables: i.e. from Table 2through Table 8.7.5.3.2.2 Except Sensor-Binary Input Threshold (SBITH) class, the Attribute ID used in the A-LINK for derivedclasses of Sensor and Actuator classes is assigned with the same manner as above.7.5.3.2.3 For Sensor-Binary Input Threshold (SBITH) class, the Attribute ID used in the A-LINK starts from 128 toprevent duplication with the numerical identifiers in CDM assigned and reserved to is parent class, SBI.7.5.3.2.4 The A-LINK attribute ID is used to identify attributes for access via A-LINK message requests, which areexplained in later sections.7.5.4 A-LINK Attribute Mappings for CDM7.5.4.1 Device Manager (DM) Object  The DM object is the device component responsible for managing andconsolidating the device operation as defined in the CDM standard. Attribute values including DM state are also assame as defined in the CDM standard. The presentation of object instance attributes to the A-LINK network shall beas indicated in Table 2.Table 2 DM Object Attribute Identifiers for A-LINKAttribute IDCDM A-LINKAttribute Name Alternative Access DmA1 1 Device Type Unite InventoryDmA2 2 Standard Revision Level Unite Inventory

&lt;!-- Page 7 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 2005 6 Attribute IDCDM A-LINKAttribute Name Alternative Access DmA3 3 Device Manufacturer Identifier Unite InventoryDmA4 4 Manufacturer Model Number Unite InventoryDmA5 5 Software or Firmware Revision Level Unite InventoryDmA6 6 Hardware Revision Level Unite InventoryDmA7 7 Serial Number Unite InventoryDmA8 8 Device Configuration Unite InventoryDmA9 9 Device Status Unite StatesDmA10 10 Reporting Mode Unite InventoryDmA11 11 Exception Status Report Interval Unite InventoryDmA12 12 Exception Status Unite StatesDmA13 13 Exception Detail Alarm Unite InventoryDmA14 14 Exception Detail Warning Unite InventoryDmA15 15 Visual Indicator Unite InventoryDmA16 16 Alarm Enable Unite InventoryDmA17 17 Warning Enable Unite InventoryDmA18 18 Exception Detail Type Unite InventoryDmA19 19 Exception Detail Alarm Queue Unite InventoryDmA20 20 Exception Detail Warning Queue Unite InventoryDmA21 21 Date and Time Unite InventoryDmA22 22 Date and Time Type Unite Inventory 7.5.4.2 Sensor, Actuator, Controller (SAC) Object  The SAC object is the device component responsible forcoordinating the interaction of the device with the sensory/actuation/control environment as defined in the CDMstandard. Attribute values including SAC state are also as same as defined in the CDM standard. The presentation ofobject instance attributes to the A-LINK network shall be as indicated in Table 3.Table 3 SAC Object Attribute Identifiers for A-LINKAttribute IDCDM A-LINK Attribute Name Alternative Access SacA1 1 Last Calibration Date DP FacilitySacA2 2 Next Calibration Date DP FacilitySacA3 3 Expiration Timer DP FacilitySacA4 4 Expiration Warning Enable DP FacilitySacA5 5 Run Hours DP Facility 7.5.4.3 Assembly Object (Asm)  The Assembly (Asm) object instances may be used to provide for grouping morethan one attribute from one or more object instances as defined in the CDM standard. Attribute values are also assame as defined in the CDM standard. The presentation of object instance attributes to the A-LINK network shall beas indicated in Table 4.Table 4 Assembly Object Attribute Identifiers for A-LINKAttribute IDCDM A-LINK Attribute Name Alternative AccessAsmA1 1 Data Data Exchange 7.5.4.4 Local Link Object (Lnk)  The Local Link (Lnk) object instances may be used to link an attribute of oneobject instance to an attribute of another object instance as defined in the CDM standard. Attribute values are also assame as defined in the CDM standard. The presentation of object instance attributes to the A-LINK network shall beas indicated in Table 4.

&lt;!-- Page 8 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 20057 Table 5 Local Link Object Attribute Identifiers for A-LINKAttribute IDCDM A-LINKAttribute Name Alternative Access LnkA1 1 Source Object Class Unite InventoryLnkA2 2 Source Object Instance Unite InventoryLnkA3 3 Source Object Attribute Unite InventoryLnkA4 4 Destination Object Class Unite InventoryLnkA5 5 Destination Object Instance Unite InventoryLnkA6 6 Destination Object Attribute Unite InventoryLnkA7 7 Commit Unite Inventory 7.5.4.5 Active Element (AE) Class  The AE class is an abstract class generic to any device component as definedin the CDM standard. Attribute values including AE state are also as same as defined in the CDM standard. Thepresentation of object instance attributes to the A-LINK network shall be as indicated in7.5.4.6 These attributes are inherited by any sensor, actuator and controller objects, and such further derived objectsas Sensor-AI and Actuator-BO objects.Table 6 AE Class Attribute Identifiers for A-LINKAttribute IDCDM A-LINK Attribute Name Alternative AccessnA1 1 Name Unite InventorynA2 2 Status Unite StatesnA3 3 AlarmEnable Unite InventorynA4 4 WarningEnable Unite Inventory#1 Prefix n in CDM attribute ID represents one of Sai, Sei, Sbi, Sbith, Aao, Aeo, Abo and C. 7.5.4.7 Sensor (S) Class  The S class is an abstract class generic to any sensors on device component as definedin the CDM standard. Attribute values are also as same as defined in the CDM standard. The presentation of objectinstance attributes to the A-LINK network shall be as indicated in Table 7. These attributes are inherited by anysensor objects as Sensor-AI object. They also inherit AE class attributes. Attribute identifiers on A-LINK for suchdirect and indirect inheritor classes of S class as Sensor-AI are assigned as 7.5.3.2 and Data Exchangecommunication could give alternative access for the attributes.Table 7 S Class Attribute Identifiers for A-LINKAttribute IDCDM A-LINKAttribute Name Alternative Access nA16 16 Value Data ExchangenA17 17 ReportInhibitTimer Data ExchangenA18 18 EnableReportRate Data ExchangenA19 19 ReportRate Data Exchange#1 Prefix n in CDM attribute ID represents one of Sai, Sei, Sbi or Sbith. 7.5.4.8 Actuator (A) Class  The A class is an abstract class generic to any actuators on device component asdefined in the CDM standard. Attribute values are also as same as defined in the CDM standard. The presentation ofobject instance attributes to the A-LINK network shall be as indicated in Table 8. These attributes are inherited byany sensor objects as Actuator-AO object. They also inherit AE class attributes. Attribute identifiers on A-LINK forinheritor classes Sensor-AO are assigned as 7.5.3.2 and Data Exchange communication could give alternativeaccess for the attributes.

&lt;!-- Page 9 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 2005 8 Table 8 A Class Attribute Identifiers for A-LINKAttribute IDCDM A-LINK Attribute Name Alternative AccessnA16 16 Setting Data ExchangenA17 17 SafeState Data ExchangenA18 18 WatchRate Data ExchangenA19 19 WatchDog Data Exchange#1 Prefix n in CDM attribute ID represents one of Aao, Aeo or Abo. 7.5.4.9 Controller (C) Object  The C object contains structure and behavior common to all controller elementinstances on device component as defined in the CDM standard. Attribute values are also as same as defined in theCDM standard. The presentation of object instance attributes to the A-LINK network shall be as indicated inTable 9. It inherits AE class attributes.Table 9 C Class Attribute Identifiers for A-LINKAttribute IDCDM A-LINK Attribute Name Alternative AccessCA16 16 Setpoint Data ExchangeCA17 17 ProcessVariable Data ExchangeCA18 18 ControlVariable Data ExchangeCA19 19 DataType Data ExchangeCA20 20 DataUnits Data ExchangeCA21 21 AlarmSettleTime Data ExchangeCA22 22 AlarmErrorBand Data ExchangeCA24 24 WarningSettleTime Data ExchangeCA25 25 WarningErrorBand Data Exchange 7.6 Services7.6.1 A-LINK specifies standard mechanisms for the communication of data over the network. These mechanismsare used to communicate attributes specified in the device on the A-LINK. Also they are used to request instructionsspecific for component in the device on the A-LINK.7.6.2 Service Requests and Response7.6.2.1 The A-LINK attribute communications and instructions require specific definitions. They are described inthe following sections.7.6.2.1.1 Service Request and Response Protocol7.6.2.1.1.1 All service request messages, except Get\_Attribute and Set\_Attribute, are sent to a device usingDirective service functions of A-LINK. The responses to these message requests are specified by A-LINK.7.6.2.1.1.2 The Service Request message is formatted, as defined by A-LINK, with the following information:Location := Object ID7.6.2.1.1.3 This service request message has no other information requested with the message. Response of therequest has following information:Location := Object IDStatus := Response InformationNOTE 2: The Location information for the response message is optional (conditional) information. Representation of the Statusinformation is implementation specific. The Response Information is dependent on class and/or device. However if the first itemof the response information, i.e. Response Code, is zero, it always means successful. Additional data may follow.

&lt;!-- Page 10 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 20059 7.6.2.1.2 Set\_Attribute Protocol7.6.2.1.2.1 The Service Request message for the Set-Attribute is sent to a device using writing capability forfollowing service functions of A-LINK: Unite Inventory service, Data Exchange service or DP Facility service.Using service function is dependent on attribute and object class as well. The dependency is given by Object ServiceIdentifier tables in following subsections of 7.6.7.6.2.1.2.2 The service request message with Unite Inventory service function of A-LINK has a couple ofinformation items. Information items for the request and its response are given below respectively:(Request)Location := Object ID :optionalData Name ID := Attribute IDData Value := Attribute Value(Response)Location := Object ID ;optionalData Name ID := Attribute IDData Value := Attribute ValueStatus := Response InformationNOTE 3: The items of Data Name ID and Data Value for the response message are optional (conditional) information.Representation of the Status information is implementation specific. The Response Information is dependent on attribute and/ordevice. However if the first item of the response information, i.e. Response Code, is zero, it always means successful. Additionaldata may follow.7.6.2.1.2.3 The service request message with Data Exchange service function of A-LINK has three informationitems. Information items for the request and its response are given below respectively:(Request)Location := Object IDData Name ID := Attribute IDData Value := Attribute Value(Response)Location := Object IDData Name ID := Attribute IDData Value := Attribute ValueStatus := Response InformationNOTE 4: The items of Location, Data Name ID and Data Value for the response message are optional (conditional) information.Representation of the Status information is implementation specific. The Response Iinformation is dependent on attribute and/orclass.7.6.2.1.2.4 The service request message with DP Facility service function of A-LINK has a couple of informationitems. Information items for the request and its response are given below respectively:(Request)Information Name ID := Attribute IDInformation Value := Attribute Value(Response)Information Name ID := Attribute IDInformation Value := Attribute ValueStatus := Response InformationNOTE 5: The items of Information Name ID and Information Value for the response message are optional (conditional)information. Representation of the Status information is implementation specific. The Response Information is dependent onattribute and/or device. However if the first item of the response information, i.e. Response Code, is zero, it always meanssuccessful. Additional data may follow.

&lt;!-- Page 11 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 2005 10 7.6.2.1.3 Get\_Attribute Protocol7.6.2.1.3.1 The Service Request message for the Get-Attribute is sent to a device using reading capability forfollowing service functions of A-LINK: Unite Inventory service, Unite State service, Data Exchange service or DPFacility service. Using service function is dependent on attribute and object class as well. The dependency is givenby Object Service Identifier tables in following subsections of 7.6.7.6.2.1.3.2 The service request message with Unite Inventory service function of A-LINK has an information item.Information items for the request and its response are given below respectively:(Request)Location := Object ID :optionalData Name ID := Attribute ID(Response)Location := Object ID :optionalData Name ID := Attribute IDData Value := Attribute ValueStatus := Response InformationNOTE 6: The item of Data Name ID for the response message is optional (conditional) information. Representation of the Statusinformation is implementation specific. The Response Information is dependent on attribute and/or device. However if the firstitem of the response information, i.e. Response Code, is zero, it always means successful. Additional data may follow.7.6.2.1.3.3 The service request message with Unite State service function of A-LINK has an information item.Information items for the request and its response are given below respectively:(Request)Top State Name ID := Object ID(Response)Top State Name ID := Object IDData Value := Attribute ValueStatus := Response InformationNOTE 7: The item of Top State Name ID for the response message is optional (conditional) information. Representation of theStatus information is implementation specific. The Response Information is dependent on attribute and/or device. However if thefirst item of the response information, i.e. Response Code, is zero, it always means successful. Additional data may follow.7.6.2.1.3.4 The service request message with Data Exchange service function of A-LINK has a couple ofinformation items. Information items for the request and its response are given below respectively:(Request)Location := Object IDData Name ID := Attribute ID(Response)Location := Object IDData Name ID := Attribute IDData Value := Attribute ValueStatus := Response InformationNOTE 8: The items of Location and Data Name ID for the response message are optional (conditional) information.Representation of the Status information is implementation specific. The Response Information is dependent on attribute and/orclass. However if the first item of the response information, i.e. Response Code, is zero, it always means successful. Additionaldata may follow.7.6.2.1.3.5 The service request message with DP Facility service function of A-LINK has an information item.Information items for the request and its response are given below respectively:(Request)Information Name ID := Attribute ID(Response)Information Name ID := Attribute ID

&lt;!-- Page 12 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 200511 Information Value := Attribute ValueStatus := Response InformationNOTE 9: The item of Information Name ID for the response message is optional (conditional) information. Representation ofthe Status information is implementation specific. The Response Information is dependent on attribute and/or device. However ifthe first item of the response information, i.e. Response Code, is zero, it always means successful. Additional data may follow.7.6.2.2 Service Identifiers  The A-LINK services are mapped for CDM as following tables.7.6.2.2.1 Device Manager (DM) Object  Services of the DM object are mapped as shown in Table 10.Table 10 DM Object Service Identifiers for A-LINKService IDCDM A-LINK Service Name Alternative InstructionDmS1 1 Reset DirectiveDmS2 2 Abort DirectiveDmS3 3 Recover DirectiveDmS4 4 GetAttribute Unite Inventory / Unite StatesDmS5 5 SetAttribute Unite InventoryDmS6 6 Execute DirectiveDmS7 7 PerformDiagnostics DirectiveDmS8 8 PublishAttribute DirectiveDmS9 9 Lock DirectiveDmS10 10 Unlock DirectiveDmS11 11 Get Exception Queue DirectiveDmA12 12 Clear Exception Queue Directive 7.6.2.2.2 Sensor Actuator Controller (SAC) Object  Services of the SAC object are mapped as shown in Table 11.Table 11 SAC Object Service Identifiers for A-LINKService IDCDM A-LINK Service Name Alternative InstructionSacS1 1 Reset DirectiveSacS2 2 Abort DirectiveSacS3 3 Recover DirectiveSacS4 4 GetAttribute Unite Inventory / Unite StatesSacS5 5 SetAttribute Unite InventorySacS6 6 Operate DirectiveSacS7 7 Restore Default DirectiveSacS8 8 Publish Attribute Directive 7.6.2.2.3 Active Element (AE) Object  Services of the AE object are mapped as shown in Table 12.7.6.2.2.3.1 Because AE class is inherited to any sensor, actuator or controller objects such as Sensor-AI andActuator-BO, these services are equipped by such objects.Table 12 AE Object Service Identifiers for A-LINKService IDCDM A-LINK Service Name Alternative InstructionnS1 1 Reset DirectivenS2 2 Abort DirectivenS3 3 Recover DirectivenS4 4 Operate DirectivenS5 5 GetAttribute Data Exchange

&lt;!-- Page 13 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 2005 12 Service IDCDM A-LINK Service Name Alternative InstructionnS6 6 SetAttribute Data ExchangenS7 7 Restore Default Directive#1 Prefix n in CDM service ID represents one of Sai, Sei, Sbi, Sbith, Aao, Aeo, Abo and C. 8 Protocol Compliance8.1 A method to testing protocol compliance is required to verify implementation conformance to this standard. A-LINK User Forum (AUF) has established a qualified certification mechanism of conformance testing andinteroperability testing. The first laboratory is constituted in Japan. A-LINK conformance test information can befound at http://www.a-linkuf.com. 9 Specific Device Model Mappings9.1 Every type of device must have an identifier number. Vendors must apply for an identifier number from the A-LINK User Organization for every Device Type.9.1.1 The Device Profile must specify the identifiers for Objects, Attributes and Services for CDM and SDMcomponents, including data formats and bit mappings for specified parameters, as represented in this document.9.1.2 The following sections specify mappings for Sensor Actuator Network Specific Device Models.9.2 Mass Flow Device9.2.1 MFD Device Reference SEMI E54.3 for a complete specification of the SDM for Mass Flow Devices.Accordingly, the following mapping rules apply to the identification tags for the Objects, Attributes and Services ofthis model.9.2.2 Objects Consistent with SEMI E54.3 and 7.4 above, the DM and SAC objects are identified as Object9.2.2.1 Mapping Table 13 shows the mapping of the SDM Object specified in SEMI E54.3.Table 13 MFD Object IdentifiersSDM Object Name SDM Object ID ID InstanceDevice Manager (DM) MFD1 1 1Sensor Actuator Contriller (SAC) MFD2 2 1Sensor-AI-MF MFD3 34 1 or supplier specificSensor-AI-AT MFD4 35 0 / 0 or supplier specificAssembly-MFM MFD5 32 0 or 1Sensor-AI-Aux MFD6 36 0 / 0 or supplier specificActuator-AO-MF MFD7 37 0 / 1 or supplier specificController MFD8 24 0 / 1Local Link MFD9 4 0 / 2 or supplier specificSISO MFD10 38 0 / 0 or supplier specificSISO-Setpoint MFD11 39 0 / 0 or supplier specificAssembly-MFC MFD12 33 0 / 0 or supplier specific#1 / = numbers for MFM / MFC 9.2.3 Attributes and Services9.2.3.1 Attributes The mapping of Attribute tags and Identifiers is defined in 7.5.3.2 for the CDM. Basically thesame definitions are applied for attributes in the Mass Flow Device SDM.9.2.3.2 Services The mapping of Service tags and Identifiers is defined in 7.6.2.2 for the CDM. Basically thesame definitions are applied for attributes in the Mass Flow Device SDM.

&lt;!-- Page 14 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 200513 9.2.3.3 MFD Specific Attributes and Services Some objects appear in MFD SDM use additional attributesand/or additional services.9.2.3.3.1 Sensor AI-MF Object Additional attributes and services are mapped as following tables.Table 14 Sensor AI-MF Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINK Attribute NameA1 192 Flow TotalizerA2 193 Flow HoursA5 196 Zero Offset ModeA6 197 Zeroing StatusA7 198 Autorange Status Table 15 Sensor AI-MF Object Service IdentifiersService IDSDM A-LINK Service NameS1 16 Perform Zero OffsetS2 17 Query Supported Gas typeS3 18 Select Programmed Gas TypeS4 19 Insert Gas TypeS5 20 Delete Gas TypeS6 21 Get Gas Calibration Data ValueS7 22 Set Gas Calibration Data ValueS8 23 Autorange 9.2.3.3.2 Actuator AO-MF Object Additional attributes are mapped as following table.Table 16 Actuator AO-MF Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINK Attribute NameA1 192 Valve TypeA2 193 Override 9.2.3.3.3 Controller Object This object has no additional attribute and/or service but form of following a coupleof attributes is restricted as Real.9.2.3.3.4 SISO Object This object is specific for MFD SDM. Attributes of the object are mapped as followingtable.Table 17 SISO Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINK Attribute NameA1 192 InputA2 193 OutputA3 194 Data Type

&lt;!-- Page 15 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 2005 14 9.2.3.3.5 SISO Setpoint Object This object is specific for MFD SDM and inherits SISO object. Attributes of thederived object are mapped as following table.Table 18 SISO Setpoint Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINK Attribute NameA33 224 Ramp typeA34 225 Ramp RateA35 226 Ratio 9.3 In-Situ Particle Monitor9.3.1 ISPM Device Reference SEMI E54.10 for a complete specification of the SDM for In-Situ Particle MonitorDevices. Accordingly, the following mapping rules apply to the identification tags for the Objects, Attributes andServices of this model.9.3.2 Objects Consistent with SEMI E54.10 and 7.4 above, the DM and SAC objects are identified as Object 1and Object 2, respectively.9.3.2.1 Mapping Table 19 shows the mapping of the SDM Object Instances specified in SEMI E54.10 (Instancenumbers are listed under heading Inst. in the table) and the A-LINK Object ID (listed under ID in the table).Table 19 ISPM Object IdentifiersSDM Object Name SDM Object ID ID InstanceDevice Manager (DM) ISPMD1 1 1Sensor Actuator Controller (SAC) ISPMD2 2 1Sensor-AI-LCS ISPMD3 32 0 or 1Sensor-AI-SLS ISPMD4 33 0 or 1Sensor-AI-MNS ISPMD5 34 0 or 1Sensor-AI-Counter ISPMD16 45 0 or n\*Assembly-ISPM#1 ISPMD17 35 1Assembly-ISPM#2 ISPMD18 36 0 or 1Assembly-ISPM#3 ISPMD19 37 0 or 1Assembly-ISPM#4 ISPMD20 38 0 or 1Assembly-ISPM#5 ISPMD21 39 0 or 1Assembly-ISPM#6 ISPMD22 40 1Assembly-ISPM#7 ISPMD23 41 0 or 1Assembly-ISPM#8 ISPMD24 42 0 or 1Assembly-ISPM#9 ISPMD25 43 0 or 1Assembly-ISPM#48 ISPMD64 44 0 or 1#1 Minimum number of the n is one and possible maximum number is 1024, dependent on supplier. 9.3.2.2 Additional objects may be defined by the manufacturer in the Device Profile for a given device.9.3.3 Attributes and Services9.3.3.1 Attributes The mapping of Attribute tags and Identifiers is defined in 7.5.3.2 for the CDM. Basically thesame definitions are applied for attributes in the In-Situ Particle Monitor SDM.9.3.3.2 Services The mapping of Service tags and Identifiers is defined in 7.6.2.2 for the CDM. Basically thesame definitions are applied for attributes in the In-Situ Particle Monitor SDM.9.3.3.3 ISPM Specific Attributes and Services Some objects appear in ISPM SDM use additional attributesand/or additional services.

&lt;!-- Page 16 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 200515 9.3.3.3.1 DM Object Additional attributes and services are mapped as following tables.Table 20 DM Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINK Attribute NameA33 33 GainA34 34 Filter BandwidthA35 35 Tool StateA36 36 Laser StatusA37 37 Flow PathA38 38 VolumeA39 39 Volume UnitsA40 40 Leak StatusA41 41 Time Stamp Table 21 DM Object Service IdentifiersService IDSDM A-LINK Service NameS1 33 Laser OnS2 34 Laser Off 9.3.3.3.2 SAC Object Additional attributes and services are mapped as following tables.Table 22 SAC Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINK Attribute NameSacA65 33 Number of BinsSacA66 34 Count ModeSacA67 35 DurationTable 23 SAC Object Service IdentifiersService IDSDM A-LINK Service NameS33 33 Clear Counts 9.3.3.3.3 Sensor AI-LCS Object Additional attributes are mapped as following table.Table 24 Sensor AI-LCS Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINK Attribute NameLcsA1 192 Reading ValidLcsA2 193 Full ScaleLcsA3 194 Alarm Setting TimeLcsA4 195 Warning Setting Time

&lt;!-- Page 17 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 2005 16 9.3.3.3.4 Sensor AI-SLS Object Additional attributes are mapped as following table.Table 25 Sensor AI-SLS Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINK Attribute NameSlsA1 192 Reading ValidSlsA2 193 Full ScaleSlsA3 194 Alarm Setting TimeSlsA4 195 Warning Setting Time9.3.3.3.5 Sensor AI-MNS Object Additional attributes are mapped as following table.Table 26 Sensor AI-MNS Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINK Attribute NameMnsA1 192 Reading ValidMnsA2 193 Full ScaleMnsA3 194 Alarm Setting TimeMnsA4 195 Warning Setting Time 9.3.3.3.6 Sensor AI-Counter Object Additional attributes are mapped as following table.Table 27 Sensor AI-Counter Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINK Attribute NameCounterA1 192 Reading ValidCounterA2 193 Full ScaleCounterA3 194 Alarm Setting TimeCounterA4 195 Warning Setting TimeCounterA5 196 Upper SizeCounterA6 197 Lower Size 9.4 Endpoint Detector9.4.1 EPD Device Reference SEMI E54.11 for a complete specification of the SDM for Endpoint Devices.Accordingly, the following mapping rules apply to the identification tags for the Objects, Attributes and Services ofthis model.9.4.2 Objects Consistent with SEMI E54.11 and 7.4 above, the DM and SAC objects are identified as Object 1and Object 2, respectively.9.4.2.1 Table 28 shows the mapping of the SDM Object Instances specified in SEMI E54.11 (Instance numbers arelisted under heading Inst. in the table) and the A-LINK Object ID (listed under ID in the table).Table 28 EPD Object IdentifiersSDM Object Name SDM Object ID ID InstanceDevice Manager (DM) EPD1 1 1Sensor Actuator Controller (SAC) EPD2 2 1Sensor-BI-TH-EP EPD3 36 0 or n\*Assembly-EPD#1 EPD4 32 1Assembly-EPD#2 EPD5 33 0 or 1Assembly-EPD#3 EPD6 34 0 or 1Assembly-EPD#4 EPD7 35 0 or 1

&lt;!-- Page 18 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 200517 #1 Minimum number of the n is one and possible maximum number is 1024. 9.4.2.2 Additional objects may be defined by the manufacturer in the Device Profile for a given device.9.4.3 Attributes and Services9.4.3.1 Attributes The mapping of Attribute tags and Identifiers is defined in 7.5.3.2 for the CDM. Basically thesame definitions are applied for attributes in the Endpoint Detector SDM.9.4.3.2 Services The mapping of Service tags and Identifiers is defined in 7.6.2.2 for the CDM. Basically thesame definitions are applied for attributes in the Endpoint Detector SDM.9.4.3.3 EPD Specific Attributes and Services Some objects appear in EPD SDM use additional attributes and/oradditional services.9.4.3.3.1 SAC Object Additional attributes and services are mapped as following tables.Table 29 SAC Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINKAttribute Name SacA65 33 Number of Endpoint Objects Table 30 SAC Object Service IdentifiersService IDSDM A-LINKService Name S33 33 Reset EndpointS34 34 Download RecipeS35 35 Upload RecipeS36 36 Calibrate 9.4.3.3.2 Sensor-BI-TH-EP Object Additional attributes and services are mapped as following tables.Table 31 Sensor-BI-TH-EP Object Attribute IdentifiersAttribute IDSDM A-LINKAttribute Name EpA1 192 Minimum TimeEpA2 193 Maximum TimeEpA3 194 Target TimeEpA4 195 Elapsed TimeEpA5 196 Time StampEpA6 197 Recipe IdentifierEpA7 198 Step Identifier Table 32 Sensor-BI-TH-EP Object Service IdentifiersService IDSDM A-LINKService Name S1 16 Endpoint OnS2 17 Endpoint OffS3 18 Endpoint StartS4 19 Endpoint SuspendS5 20 Endpoint Resume

&lt;!-- Page 19 --&gt;

SEMI E54.##-0705 © SEMI 2005 18 NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standards set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturer's instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature, respecting any materials or equipment mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change withoutnotice.By publication of this standard, Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any items mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 20 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 20031 SEMI E58-0703AUTOMATED RELIABILITY, AVAILABILITY, AND MAINTAINABILITYSTANDARD (ARAMS): CONCEPTS, BEHAVIOR, AND SERVICES This standard was technically approved by the Global Information & Control Committee and is the directresponsibility of the North American Information & Control Committee. Current edition approved by theNorth American Regional Standards Committee on October 19, 2000. Initially available at www.semi.orgJanuary 2001; to be published March 2001. Originally published June 1997. NOTICE: The designation of SEMI E58 was updated during the 0703 publishing cycle to reflect the reapproval ofSEMI E58.1.CONTENTS1 Purpose1.2 Background and Motivations2 Scope3 Referenced Documents4 Terminology4.1 Acronyms4.2 General Terms4.3 Data Types5 Basic Requirements6 Conventions6.1 State Model Methodology6.2 Object Attribute Representation6.3 Service Message Representation6.3.1 Service Resource Definition6.3.2 Service Parameter Dictionary6.3.3 Service Message Definition7 Overview8 State Models8.2 SEMI E10 Equipment States8.3 ARAMS State Model Definition8.3.1 ARAMS State Model Diagram8.3.2 Descriptions of ARAMS States8.3.2.1 TOTAL TIME8.3.2.2 MANUFACTURING8.3.2.3 PRODUCTIVE8.3.2.4 STANDBY8.3.2.5 ENGINEERING8.3.2.6 UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME 8.3.2.7 SCHEDULED DOWNTIME8.3.2.8 NON-SCHEDULDED TIME8.3.3 ARAMS Substates8.3.4 State Transitions8.4 General Equipment Operations Model8.4.2 State Definitions8.4.2.1 POWER-OFF8.4.2.2 POWER-ON8.4.2.3 INITIALIZING8.4.2.4 READY8.4.2.5 IDLE8.4.2.6 BUSY8.4.3 General Equipment Operations ModelTable of Transitions8.5 State Model Relationships8.5.2 IDLE and BUSY8.5.3 Non-Manufacturing States9 ARAMS Substate Codes9.2 Reserved Codes9.3 Additional Codes9.4 Valid ARAMS Substate Code9.5 Manufacturing Code10 ARAMS Tables10.2 Definition of Tables10.2.1 Table Types and Identifiers10.2.2 Table Row Definition10.2.3 Table Attributes10.2.4 Additional Requirements10.3 ARAMS Substate Table

&lt;!-- Page 21 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 2 10.4 ARAMS Symptom Table11 ARAMS Data11.2 Status Information11.2.3 ARAMSInfo11.2.4 ARAMSState11.2.5 ARAMSText11.2.6 Clock11.2.7 CycleCtr11.2.8 DowntimeAlarm11.2.9 DowntimeAlarmText11.2.10 DowntimeData11.2.11 LastPowerdown11.2.12 PowerdownTime11.2.13 PrdState11.2.14 PrevARAMSState11.2.15 SymptomID11.2.16 SymptomText11.3 Constant Data11.3.1 EqpModel11.3.2 EqpSerialNum11.4 User-Configurable Data11.4.1 EngInterrupt (optional)11.4.2 EngRecovery (optional)11.4.3 EqpName (required)11.4.4 PowerupState (optional)11.4.5 PrdRecovery (optional)11.4.6 SbyRecovery (optional)11.4.7 SubstateSelect (optional)11.5 Accumulators11.5.2 ARAMSAccumReset11.5.3 ARAMSTimestamp11.5.4 EngTime11.5.5 InterruptionPrd11.5.6 InterruptionTotal11.5.7 NSTime11.5.8 PrdTime11.5.9 SbyTime 11.5.10 SDTime11.5.11 UDTime12 Events and Pre-Defined Event Reports13 Object Services Compliance13.1 Equipment Object13.2 Table Objects14 Human Interface Requirements14.1 Data Access14.2 Selection of an ARAMS State/Substate14.3 User-Defined ARAMS Symptom Tables14.4 Table Access14.5 Color Codes15 Services15.2 Services Parameter Dictionary15.3 TableSend15.4 TableRequest15.5 ARAMSStateChange15.6 ResetAccumulators16 ARAMS Behavioral Requirements16.1 ARAMS State Transitions16.2 Powerup Entry16.3 Powerup and Powerdown States16.3.2 PowerupState16.4 User-Initiated State Change Requests16.5 Production and Standby Substates16.6 Equipment-Selected Substates16.7 Equipment-Detected Exceptions16.7.4 Fault Detection in ENGINEERING16.8 Equipment-Initiated Recovery16.8.2 Automatic Recovery17 Requirements for Compliance17.1 Fundamental Requirements17.1.1 Event Notification17.1.2 Clock Services17.1.3 Read-Only Data Access17.1.4 User-Configurable Data Access17.1.5 Alarm/Exception Management

&lt;!-- Page 22 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 20033 17.1.6 ARAMS State Model17.1.7 ARAMS State Transition Notification17.1.8 ARAMS Substate Codes17.1.9 ARAMS Status Data17.1.10 ARAMS Constant Data17.1.11 ARAMS Event Report Data17.1.12 Host State Change Request17.1.13 Estimation of Powerdown Time17.1.14 ARAMS Behavioral Requirements17.2 Additional Capabilities17.2.1 User-Configurable Powerup State17.2.2 User-Configurable Fault Recovery toManufacturing17.2.3 Accumulator Data17.2.4 User-Generated ARAMS SubstateTable(s)17.2.5 Equipment-Generated ARAMSSubstate Table(s)17.2.6 User-Generated Symptom Table(s) 17.2.7 Human Interface Requirements17.2.8 Equipment-Selected Substates17.2.9 User-Configurable Fault Detection inENGINEERING17.2.10 User-Configurable Fault Recovery toENGINEERING17.2.11 Human Interface Requirements17.3 Requirements for Compliance18 ARAMS States for Multi-Module EquipmentRelated Information 1R1-1 Estimating Powerdown TimeR1-1.2 UpdatePeriodR1-2 Powerup ScenarioR1-3 Equipment-Initiated TransitionR1-4 Operator-Initiated TransitionR1-5 Host-Initiated TransitionRelated Information 2R2-1 User-Initiated Transitions toUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME

&lt;!-- Page 23 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 4 SEMI E58-0703AUTOMATED RELIABILITY, AVAILABILITY, AND MAINTAINABILITYSTANDARD (ARAMS): CONCEPTS, BEHAVIOR, AND SERVICES This standard was technically approved by the Global Information & Control Committee and is the directresponsibility of the North American Information & Control Committee. Current edition approved by theNorth American Regional Standards Committee on October 19, 2000. Initially available at www.semi.orgJanuary 2001; to be published March 2001. Originally published June 1997. NOTICE: The designation of SEMI E58 was updated during the 0703 publishing cycle to reflect the reapproval ofSEMI E58.1. 1 Purpose1.1 This document provides standards forimplementing and collecting SEMI E10 state changes atthe equipment level per SEMI E10.1.1.1 SEMI E10 defines various terms and equipmentstates but was not written specifically for application byautomated equipment. This document is intended toprovide a consistent interpretation of these equipmentstates through formal state model methodology.1.1.2 ARAMS defines concepts, behavior, andmessage services to support the integration ofautomated systems within a semiconductor factory.1.1 Background and Motivations  To implement theintegration of SEMI E10 states on automatedequipment, integration of definitions and requirementsmust be detailed and precise to ensure interpretationsare consistent across equipment suppliers. Thisprovides an opportunity to automatically retaininformation at the equipment itself.1.1.3 Both equipment supplier and equipment userbenefit from the automation of SEMI E10 datacollection at the equipment through application of aconsistent state model.1.1.4 SEMI E10 defines specific states but does notaddress transitions between states. The ARAMSstandard specifies the triggers for state transitions madeby automated equipment. Extensions to SEMI E10described in this document apply to decisions made byautomated equipment only. 2 Scope1.2 This standard is applicable to the followingrelationships: traditional host/equipment,operator/equipment, and cluster tool controller/attachedmodule. The scope of this document is to definestandards which facilitate equipment-level capture andcommunication of SEMI E10 related data. Specifically,this document provides the following:  An equipment state model that defines the rules forequipment state changes, A set of standard equipment codes for representingsubstates of the six basic equipment states definedin SEMI E10, Definition of equipment-generated data, Concepts and messages required to exchangeinformation, and Requirements for fundamental compliance toARAMS Additional optional specifications.1.3 This standard is intended as a supplement to SEMIE10 to be used for equipment support of SEMI E10.Formal definitions of all terms common to bothdocuments are provided solely by SEMI E10.1.4 This standard does not purport to address safetyissues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establishappropriate safety and health practices and determinethe applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 3 Referenced Standards3.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E10  Standard for Definition and Measurementof Equipment Reliability, Availability, andMaintainability (RAM)SEMI E30  Generic Model for Communications andControl of SEMI Equipment (GEM)SEMI E38  Cluster Tool Module Communications(CTMC)SEMI E39  Object Services Standard: Concepts,Behavior, and ServicesSEMI E41  Exception Management (EM) StandardSEMI E42  Recipe Management Standard: Concepts,Behavior, and Message ServicesSEMI E53  Event Reporting

&lt;!-- Page 24 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 20035 3.2 Other DocumentHarel, D., Statecharts: A Visual Formalism forComplex Systems, Science of Computer Programming8 (1987) 231274NOTE 1: As listed or revised, all documents cited shall bethe latest publications of adopted standards. 4 Terminology4.1 Acronyms  The following acronyms are used inthis document.4.1.1 ARAMS  Automated Reliability, Availability,and Maintainability Standard, as defined by thisdocument.4.1.2 CTMC  Cluster Tool Module Communications\[SEMI E38\].4.1.3 EMS  Exception Management Standard \[SEMIE41\].4.1.4 ERS  Event Reporting Standard \[SEMI E53\].4.1.5 GEM  Generic Equipment Model \[SEMI E30\].4.1.6 OSS  Object Services Standard \[SEMI E39\].4.1.7 RAM  Reliability, Availability, andMaintainability.4.2 General Terms  The following definitions forgeneral terms are used in this document. References aregiven in brackets.4.2.1 alarm  Related to any abnormal situation on theequipment that may endanger people, equipment, ormaterial being processed \[SEMI E30, SEMI E41\].4.2.2 collection event  An event (or grouping ofrelated events) on the equipment that is considered tobe significant to the host \[SEMI E30\].NOTE 2: A state transition in a formal state model alwaysrepresents a collection event unless explicitly statedotherwise.4.2.3 equipment production criteria  The set ofconditions and operating specifications that must besatisfied for the equipment to consider itself asperforming its intended function. This includes basicrequirements for information, material to process, andthe absence of any detectable exception conditions(e.g., no alarms). It also includes criteria specific to theequipment model, such as a required level for vacuumpressure and availability of consumables and supporttools required for its process.4.2.4 event  A detectable occurrence significant tothe equipment.NOTE 3: Within the context of ARAMS, an event may bedetected by either the equipment or the user. 4.2.5 event report  A message the equipment sendsto the host on the occurrence of a collection event.4.2.6 exception  An alarm or error that is reported tothe user and that may or may not be recoverable.4.2.7 fault  An exception.4.2.8 host  The intelligent system that communicateswith the equipment, acts as a supervisory agent, andrepresents the factory and the user to the equipment.4.2.9 intended function  A manufacturing functionthat the equipment was built to perform. This includestransport functions for transport equipment andmeasurement functions for metrology equipment aswell as process functions such as physical vapordeposition and wire bonding. Complex equipment mayhave more than one intended function.4.2.10 interrupt (interruption)  A failure \[SEMIE10\].4.2.11 operator  Any person who communicateslocally with the equipment through the equipmentscontrol panel.4.2.12 state  A static set of conditions and associatedbehavior. While all of its conditions are met, the state iscurrent (active). Behavior within a given state includesthe response to various stimuli.NOTE 4: Within the scope of this document, the term stategenerally refers to one of the six equipment states defined bySEMI E10 and used in the ARAMS State Model: productive,standby, engineering, scheduled downtime, unscheduleddowntime, and non-scheduled time.4.2.13 state model  A collection of states and statetransitions that combine to describe the behavior of asystem. This model includes a definition of theconditions that delineate a state, the activities possiblewithin a state, the events that trigger transitions to otherstates, and the process of transitioning between states.4.2.14 state transition  A change from one state toanother state.4.2.15 standby condition  Any condition duringmanufacturing time when the equipments productioncriteria are not satisfied, and it is fault free andotherwise able to perform its intended function.4.2.16 substate  A refinement of a state.NOTE 5: States may be subdivided into substates to facilitatemore concise definition of behavior. Thus, a hierarchy isdefined whereby any state may be a substate of some parentstate and in turn be the parent of its own substates \[SEMIE30, Appendix\].4.2.17 superstate  The parent state of two or morestates.

&lt;!-- Page 25 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 6 4.2.18 symptom  A user-detected event (e.g., smokeobserved).4.2.19 timestamp  The notation of the date and timeof the occurrence of an event \[SEMI E42\].4.2.20 timestamp format  A text string of the formYYYYMMDDhhmmsscc, where:YYYY = year (e.g., 1995)MM = month (0112)DD = day (0131)hh = hour (0023)mm = minute (0059)ss = second (0059)cc = centisecond (0099)4.2.21 trigger  An event that causes a change in thestate of the equipment. Examples are changes in sensorreadings, alarms, messages received from the host, andoperator commands.4.2.22 user  Any entity interacting with theequipment, either locally as an operator or remotely viathe host. From the equipments viewpoint, both theoperator and the host represent the user.4.3 data types  The following terms are used torepresent valid types of data.4.3.1 form  Type of data: positive integer, unsignedinteger, integer, floating point (float) enumerated,Boolean, text, formatted text, structure, list, ordered list.4.3.2 positive integer  May take the value of anypositive whole number. Messaging protocol mayimpose a limit on the range of possible values.4.3.3 unsigned integer  May take the value of anypositive integer or zero. Messaging protocol mayimpose a limit on the range of possible values.4.3.4 integer  May take on the value of any negativeor unsigned integer. Messaging protocol may impose alimit on the range of possible values.4.3.5 floating point (float)  May take on any single(real) numeric value, positive or negative. Messagingprotocol may impose a limit on the range of possiblevalues.4.3.6 enumerated  May take on one of a limited setof possible values. These values may be given logicalnames, but they may be represented by any single-itemdata type.4.3.7 boolean  May take on one of two possiblevalues, equating to TRUE and FALSE. 4.3.8 text  A character string. Messaging protocolmay impose restrictions, such as length or ASCIIrepresentation.4.3.9 formatted text  A character string with animposed format. This could be by position, by use ofspecial characters, or both.4.3.10 structure  A specific set of items, of possiblymixed data types, in a specified arrangement.4.3.11 list  A set of one or more items that are all ofthe same form (one of the above forms).4.3.12 ordered list  A set of items in specificsequence. 5 Basic Requirements1.5 An ARAMS-compliant implementation requiresprovision of certain capabilities defined by otherstandards: accessibility to status information, eventreporting, alarm management, and provision of aninternal time-and-date clock. These requirements maybe satisfied through compliance to one of the followingsets of requirements: The Generic Equipment Model (GEM): Clock Services Event Notification Status Data Collection Equipment Constants Alarm Management The following set of standards: Object Services Standard Clock Services, Cluster Tool ModuleCommunications Event Reporting Standard Exception Management Standard1.6 The developer is expected to be familiar with theappropriate documents before attempting to implementARAMS (see Section 16.1). 6 ConventionsThis document follows the conventions for state modelmethodology and service definitions used by the SEMIstandards referenced in Section 3.6.1 State Model Methodology  This document usesthe state model methodology in SEMI E30 to describethe behavior of equipment. A state model has threeelements: definitions of each state and substate, a

&lt;!-- Page 26 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 20037 diagram of the states and the transitions between states,and a state transition table. The diagram of the statemodel uses the Harel State Chart notation. An overviewof this notation is presented in an appendix of SEMIE30. The formal definition of this notation is presentedin Science of Computer Programming 8, Statecharts:A Visual Formalism for Complex Systems, by D.Harel, 1987.1.6.1 Transition tables are provided in conjunctionwith the state diagrams to explicitly describe the natureof each state transition. A transition table containscolumns for Transition #, Current State, Trigger, NewState, Action(s), and Comment. The trigger (column3) for the transition occurs while in the current state.The actions (column 5) includes a combination of 1)actions taken upon exit of the current state, 2) actionstaken upon entry of the new state, and 3) actions takenwhich are most closely associated with the transition.No differentiation is made between these cases. #CurrentState TriggerNewState Action(s) CommentTransition # 1.7 Object Attribute Representation  The objectinformation models for standardized objects will besupported by an attribute definition table with thefollowing column headings: AttributeName Definition Access Reqd FormThe formaltext name ofthe attribute. Description ofthe informationcontained. RO or RW Y or N (seebelow) 1.7.1 The Access column uses RO (Read Only) or RW(Read and Write) to indicate the access that users of theservice have to the attribute.1.7.2 A Y or N in the Required (Reqd) columnindicates if this attribute must be supported in order tomeet fundamental compliance for the service.1.7.3 The Form column is used to indicate the formatof the attribute (see Section 4 for definitions).6.2 Service Message Representation1.7.4 Service Resource Definition  A servicedefinition table defines the specific set of messages fora given service resource, as shown in the followingtable: MessageService Name Type Description Message name N or R The intent of the service 1.7.4.1 Type can be either N = Notification or R =Request.1.7.4.2 Notification type messages are initiated by theservice provider and the provider does not expect to geta response from the service user (consumer/subscriber).1.7.4.3 Request messages are initiated by a serviceuser. Request messages ask for data or an activity fromthe provider. Request messages expect a specificresponse message (no presumption on the messagecontent).1.7.5 Service Parameter Dictionary  A serviceparameter dictionary table defines the parameters forone or more services, as shown in the following table: Parameter Description FormParameter X A parameter called X is B in A. Data type. 1.7.5.1 A row is provided in the table for eachparameter of the service. The first column contains thename of the parameter. This is followed by columnsdescribing the form and contents of the correspondingparameter.1.7.5.2 The Form column is used to indicate the typeof data contained in a parameter (see Section 4 fordefinitions).1.7.5.3 The Description column in the ServiceParameter Dictionary table describes the meaning of theparameter, the allowed values, and anyinterrelationships with other parameters.1.7.5.4 To prevent the definition of numerousparameters named XxxList, this document adopts theconvention of referring to the list as (List of) Xxx. Inthis case, the definition of the variable Xxx will begiven, not of the list. The term list indicates acollection (or set) of zero or more items of the samedata type.1.7.5.5 Where a list is used in both the request and theresponse, the list order in the request is retained in theresponse. A list must contain at least one element unlesszero elements are specifically allowed.1.7.6 Service Message Definition  A servicemessage definition table defines the parameters usedin a service, as shown in the following table: Parameter Req/Ind Rsp/Conf DescriptionParameter X (see below) (see below) A description of theparameter.

&lt;!-- Page 27 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 8 1.7.6.1 The columns labeled Req/Ind and Rsp/Conflink the parameters to the direction of the message. Themessage sent by the initiator is called the Request.The receiver terms this message the Indication. Thereceiver may then send a Response, which theoriginal sender terms the Confirmation.1.7.6.2 The following codes appear in the Req/Ind andRsp/Conf columns and are used in the definition of theparameters (e.g., how each parameter is used in eachdirection):M - Mandatory parameter  Must be given avalid value.C - Conditional parameter  May be defined insome circumstances and undefined in others.Whether a value is given may be a completelyoptional or may depend on the value of otherparameters.U - User-defined parameter-  The parameter is not used.=  (For response only) Indicates that the valueof this parameter in the response must match that inthe primary (if defined). 7 Overview1.8 This section provides an overview of howARAMS will be applied and the capabilities thatARAMS defines.1.9 Systems that are used to track equipmentperformance should be based on SEMI E10sdefinitions of the six basic equipment states. Thetracking systems typically rely on factory personnel tomanually enter SEMI E10 state changes. Individualfactories may have further company-specific and/orfacilities-specific refinements of the states. Forexample, the basic equipment state may beunscheduled downtime with a refinement of waitingfor parts. In addition to entering a state change, theoperator (who may be the production operator, aprocess engineer, an equipment engineer, or a supplierfield service engineer) may select from a pre-definedset of behaviors (symptoms) that prompted the changeof state, such as smoke observed.1.10 Specifications provided by ARAMS are intendedto support the integration of equipment systems withfactory tracking systems. For this purpose, equipmentneeds to be cognizant of the ARAMS states andsubstates, must know its current state, and must followcommon rules for determining if equipment-initiatedtransitions can be made. In addition, the user needs tobe able to interact with the tracking system at either thehost systems console or the equipments operator console. This requires that the operator be able to entercertain information at the equipments console: a newstate or substate request, and specific observed behaviorthat prompted the request. The host system is thennotified that a change in state has occurred.1.11 Integrated systems are able to provide moreaccurate data for those state changes than the equipmentalone is able to detect. While the user is still required toinitiate state changes for other conditions, this can beaccomplished either directly at the equipments consoleor remotely at the host tracking system terminal.1.12 Exchange of information is accomplishedthrough standardization of the meaning and form ofdata and the specification of the message services forthe exchange. ARAMS provides generic definitions forthe common substates described in SEMI E10. ARAMSalso defines two tables and the message servicesrequired for the equipment and host to exchange tables.The first table contains a set of ARAMS substatedefinitions (an ARAMS code identifying the substate)and a corresponding description. The second tabledefines a set of symptoms with a numeric symptomidentifier and a corresponding description.1.13 While the above discussion assumes that theequipment is interacting with host systems, theARAMS state model only requires interactions with auser, which might be either a local operator or a hostsystem. 8 State Models1.14 This section defines the formal state model forARAMS, called the ARAMS State Model, which isrequired for ARAMS compliance. To clarify therelationships between this state model and theequipments operations, it introduces a second statemodel, called the General Equipment OperationsModel, which is used for purposes of illustration. TheGeneral Equipment Operations Model is assumed toexist in some form but is not required for ARAMScompliance.1.14.1 This document follows the convention of usingupper-case to denote the formal names of states.Informal references may use lower case. For example,the ARAMS states SCHEDULED DOWNTIME andUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME may be referred to asdowntime states.1.14.2 Detailed requirements for equipment behaviorare provided in Section 16.NOTE 6: Although the equipment is unable to detect acondition of no power, it is able to detect when theINITIALIZING state has been entered and is able todifferentiate between a hard reset (Transition 6) and a soft re-boot (Transition 5).

&lt;!-- Page 28 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 20039 8.1 SEMI E10 Equipment States  Figure 1 contains adiagram of SEMI E10 equipment states using the Harelnotation. SEMI E10 divides total time into six basicstates: PRODUCTIVE, ENGINEERING, STANDBY,SCHEDULED DOWNTIME, UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME, and NON-SCHEDULED TIME. Thesesix states are shown in Figure 1 with solid lines.1.14.3 OPERATIONS TIME, UPTIME,DOWNTIME, and MANUFACTURING TIME arederived by grouping states defined in SEMI E10 andare useful for classification purposes, but formally theyare not considered as SEMI E10 equipment states. Timein these groupings can be derived by summing the timein their corresponding states, based on Figure 1.NOTE 7: Figure 1 uses shadings to show derived states. It isnot intended as a formal state model.1.14.4 MANUFACTURING TIME includes timespent in PRODUCTIVE and STANDBY. UPTIMEincludes the time spent in MANUFACTURING TIMEand ENGINEERING. DOWNTIME includes the timespent in SCHEDULED DOWNTIME andUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME.1.14.5 In SEMI E10, precise rules governing statetransitions are not required. The ARAMS model, incontrast, is intended to be used by automated equipment capable of detecting internal conditions. Conditions foreach valid state transition are defined, both thoseinitiated by equipment and those determined byinteractions between the user and the equipment.8.2 ARAMS State Model Definition  This sectioncontains the formal definition of the ARAMS StateModel, consisting of three parts: A diagram of the ARAMS State Model (Figure 2),using Harel notation, a description of each state and the behavior of theequipment within that state, and a table of transitions (Table 1) showing theprevious state before the transition, the trigger forthe transition, the new state after the transition, adescription of any actions to be taken upon entry,and comments concerning the new state.8.2.1 ARAMS State Model Diagram  Figure 2contains the diagram of the ARAMS State Model.8.2.2 Descriptions of ARAMS States  This sectionprovides brief descriptions of the basic states for modelcompleteness.NOTE 8: These are informal descriptions included for thecompleteness of the ARAMS State Model. They do notreplace the formal definitions in SEMI E10. TOTAL TIME OPERATIONS TIME NON-SCHEDULEDTIMESTANDBY PRODUCTIVE MANUFACTURINGTIMEUPTIME ENGINEERING SCHEDULEDDOWNTIMEUNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME Figure 1

&lt;!-- Page 29 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 10 SEMI E10 Equipment States in Harel Notation8.2.2.1 TOTAL TIME  The TOTAL TIME stateincludes 100% of real time; the sum of the time in thesix basic SEMI E10 states, including time when theequipment is powered down. PRODUCTIVE,STANDBY, and ENGINEERING are called uptime,and SCHEDULED DOWNTIME andUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME are called downtime.8.2.2.2 MANUFACTURING  The ARAMS StateModel includes MANUFACTURING as a user-selectable superstate of PRODUCTIVE and STAND-BY. When the user selects MANUFACTURING, theequipment automatically transitions to eitherPRODUCTIVE or STANDBY, depending upon itsinternal status at the time.1.14.5.1.1 Equipment is fault-free duringMANUFACTURING.NOTE 9: MANUFACTURING is not a SEMI E10equipment state.8.2.2.3 PRODUCTIVE  The PRODUCTIVE statecovers the time spent by the equipment in performingits intended function. This also includes time spentloading and unloading product. PRODUCTIVE is anuptime manufacturing state.1.14.5.1.2 The equipment is in PRODUCTIVE when,and only when, it is in MANUFACTURING, itsequipment production criteria are satisfied, and it isbusy performing its intended function.NOTE 10: Although by definition, the equipment is onlyconsidered to be performing its intended function in thePRODUCTIVE state, equipment processing cycles may occurin any of the basic SEMI E10 states except STANDBY.8.2.2.4 STANDBY  The STANDBY state is anuptime manufacturing state that covers the time theequipment is waiting to enter the PRODUCTIVE state.1.14.5.1.3 The equipment enters this stateautomatically from the PRODUCTIVE state wheneverit is in the MANUFACTURING superstate and therequirements for PRODUCTIVE do not apply. Thisincludes periods during which it detects a normalstandby condition, such as no work, no operator, etc.During STANDBY, the equipment monitors conditionsfor PRODUCTIVE. When all requirements forPRODUCTIVE are satisfied, then it transitionsautomatically to PRODUCTIVE.8.2.2.5 ENGINEERING  The ENGINEERING stateis an uptime state that is selected by the user for processand equipment engineering purposes, such as processdevelopment or characterization.1.14.5.1.4 Because the equipment may be pusheddeliberately outside of its normal operating conditions, faults that may occur in the ENGINEERING state donot trigger equipment-initiated transitions toUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME. The equipment mayalso be powered off while in ENGINEERING.8.2.2.6 UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME  TheUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME state is used forunplanned downtime activities, such as maintenance,setups, conversions, change of consumables, factory-related problems, etc.1.14.5.1.5 Any transition from PRODUCTIVE toUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME, whether equipment oruser initiated, counts as a SEMI E10 failure. In somecases, where the equipment has detected an alarmcondition and has transitioned to UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME, the equipment is able to recover andreturn to PRODUCTIVE.8.2.2.7 SCHEDULED DOWNTIME  TheSCHEDULED DOWNTIME state is used for planneddowntime activities, such as preventive maintenance,setups, conversions, change of consumables, factory-related events, etc.8.2.2.8 NON-SCHEDULED TIME  The NON-SCHEDULED TIME state is used to account for timeoutside of the normal factory production schedule. Thisincludes time when the factory itself is not operatingand time when the equipment is being used forpurposes other than production, engineering, ormaintenance. Examples of such time include unworkedshifts, holidays, plant shutdowns, installation, and off-line (outside of normal factory operations) training ofpersonnel.8.2.3 ARAMS Substates  Each of the six basicARAMS states have refinements defined in SEMI E10.These refinements are captured by the ARAMSSubstate Codes in Section 9. The host requests anARAMS state change by specifying an ARAMSSubstate Code directly, while the operator selects astate and substate combination, through the humaninterface, that results in an ARAMS Substate Code. Theequipment then determines the appropriate ARAMSstate/substate based on this code.8.2.4 State Transitions  The user may ask theequipment to go to any ARAMS state at any time byspecifying a new ARAMS Substate Code (see Section9) or by specifying a code of 0000 to request achange to the MANUFACTURING superstate.NOTE 11: A user-initiated ARAMS state change is notintended to initiate a change in the equipments operation. Forexample, if the operator puts the equipment inUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME while the equipment iscompleting a process cycle of material, the equipment shall

&lt;!-- Page 30 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200311 complete its normal cycle. If the operator intends to abort the process, then the process must be specifically aborted.1.14.5.2 Table 1 defines the triggers for each transition shown in Figure 2. Figure 2ARAMS State Model Table 1 Table 1 Transitions for ARAMS State Model# Current State Trigger New State Action(s) Comment1 (Eitherundeterminable orany state exceptPRODUCTIVE orSTANDBY) Powerup/reset Depends upon thestate in whichTransition 11occurred (see Section8.5.2). None Entry state is dependent uponprevious state (see NOTE 1)where this can be determined.May not generate an eventreport.2 (any state) User selects amanufacturing state.PRODUCTIVE orSTANDBY,depending upon thestatus of theequipment. Determine the newARAMSstate/substate. Equipment determines ifproduction criteria aresatisfied. If not, it transitionsto STANDBY. No eventreport is generated.3 STANDBY Equipment detectsthat all its productioncriteria are satisfied. PRODUCTIVE Set ARAMSState tovalue in PrdState(Section 11.2). May begin or resumeprocessing. 4 PRODUCTIVE Equipment detects astandby condition.STANDBY Monitor allproduction criteria.Equipment may detect astandby condition at any time.5 PRODUCTIVE Equipment detects anexception.UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIMEIncrementInterruptionPrd(Section 11.5). Alarm or exception reportgenerated by same trigger.

&lt;!-- Page 31 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 12 # Current State Trigger New State Action(s) Comment6 UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIMEAll fault conditionshave been cleared.PRODUCTIVE Resume processing Transition 6 can only followTransition 5. Automaticrecovery without operatordirection may be disabled bythe user. (See NOTE 2.) Mayresume processing. Processshould be recoverable withoutdegradation.7 STANDBY Equipment detectsfault condition.UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIMENone Alarm or exception reportgenerated by same trigger.8 UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIMEAll fault conditionshave been cleared.STANDBY Monitor allproduction criteria.Transition 8 can only followTransition 7 and may bedisabled by the user.(See NOTE 3.)9 STANDBY A monitored para-meter has reached apre-defined limit. SCHEDULEDDOWNTIMENone Preventive maintenance mayrequire reset of the monitoredparameter.10 (Any ARAMSstate/substate)User selects a newARAMS SubstateCode. (Based onstate/substate selectedby user) Depends uponstate/substateselected. The user may select a newARAMS state or substate atany time.11 (Any of the six basicstates)Powerdown UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME,SCHEDULEDDOWNTIME, orNON-SCHEDULEDTIME. None On powerup, the equipmentassumes this transition hasoccurred. This state transitiondoes not represent a collectionevent. 12 STANDBY Equipment detects achange in standbyconditions. STANDBY None Transitions 12 and 13 areoptional and may be disabledby the user. (See NOTE 4.)13 PRODUCTIVE Equipment detects achange in productiveconditions. PRODUCTIVE None Transitions 12 and 13 areoptional and may be disabledby the user. (See NOTE 4.)14 ENGINEERING Equipment detects afault condition.UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIMENone Transitions 14 and 15 may bedisabled by the user.(See NOTE 5.)15 UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIMEAll fault conditionshave been cleared.ENGINEERING None Transition 14 shall onlyfollow Transition 15.(See NOTE 6.)NOTE 1: See the variable ARAMSState in Section 11.2.4.NOTE 2: See PrdRecovery variable in Section 11.4.5.NOTE 3: See SbyRecovery variable in Section 11.4.6.NOTE 4: See SubstateSelect variable in Section 11.4.7.NOTE 5: See EngInterrupt variable in Section 11.4.1.NOTE 6: EngRecovery variable in Section 11.4.2 required for automatic recovery.

&lt;!-- Page 32 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200313 8.3 General Equipment Operations Model  Theequipment has various state models that it maintains inaddition to the ARAMS State Model. The state modelpresented in this section (Figure 3) is provided as ahigh-level example of one such model to clarify therelationship between ARAMS and the equipmentsoperations. For purposes of ARAMS, it is referred to asthe General Equipment Operations Model. Figure 3Example of General Equipment Operations Model 1.14.6 ARAMS assumes that a similar model, eitherformal or implicit, exists, although it may differ indetail depending upon the equipment type and theapplication. Formal implementation of the GeneralEquipment Operations Model is not required forARAMS compliance. 1.14.6.1 The states of the General EquipmentOperations Model are not SEMI E10 states or substates.NOTE 12: To minimize confusion between references tostates and events, the events of losing power and recoveringpower are termed powerdown and powerup respectively.8.3.1 State Definitions  The General EquipmentOperations Model uses the following states:8.3.1.1 POWER-OFF  The equipment has no powerand is unable to function. While this state is only validfrom a view external to the equipment, it is required tocover all periods of time to match the ARAMS model.8.3.1.2 POWER-ON  The POWER-ON state includesall the functions of the equipment. It has two substates,INITIALIZING and READY.8.3.1.3 INITIALIZING  When equipment is firstpowered on or recovers from a reset, it must initializeits hardware and software subsystems and components,including its different internal state models. Thisprocess takes time, which is represented by theINITIALIZING state.8.3.1.4 READY  When all initializations arecomplete, the equipment enters the READY state and isable to interact with the user. The READY state hastwo substates, IDLE and BUSY.8.3.1.5 IDLE  In the IDLE state, the equipment isinactive and able to accept a command for automaticprocessing or manual operations.NOTE 13: IDLE is not the same as the SEMI E10STANDBY state. (See Section 8.5.3.)8.3.1.6 BUSY  In the BUSY state, the equipment isactive. BUSY includes all operations of the equipment.NOTE 14: BUSY is not the same as the SEMI E10PRODUCTION state. (See Section 8.5.3.)8.3.2 General Equipment Operations Model Table ofTransitions  Table 2 defines the triggers for eachtransition shown in Figure 3. The second column,labeled Table 1, shows the corresponding transition inthe ARAMS state model. Table 2 Table 2 Table of Transitions for General Equipment Operations Model# Table 1 Current State Trigger New State Action(s) Comment1 None (undefined) Equipment isinstalled.POWER-OFF None New equipment 2 None POWER-OFF Power is turned on(powerup).INITIALIZING Begin systeminitialization.Initialization of hardwareand software.3 11 POWER-ON Power is turned off(powerdown).POWER-OFF None Equipment does notfunction.

&lt;!-- Page 33 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 14 # Table 1 Current State Trigger New State Action(s) Comment4 1 INITIALIZING Systeminitialization iscomplete. IDLE Begin normalinternal activities.Wait for input. Normal. Equipment is ableto interact with the user. 5 11 READY(anysubstate)Internal error, orsoft re-boot byrequest. INITIALIZING Re-initializesystem.This is treated in the sameway as Transition 2. 6 1 (any substate of)POWER-ONSystem reset. INITIALIZING Re-initializesystem.A reset is done throughhardware.7 Conditional IDLE Equipmentreceivesinstructions toperform anautomated ormanual function. BUSY(See NOTE 1.)Perform therequested function.Equipment may be capableof performing multiplefunctions while in BUSY. 8 ContinuedConditionalBUSY(See NOTE 1.)The equipment hascompleted allrequestedfunctions. IDLE Wait for newinstructions.Equipment may be capableof performing non-hardware-related functions in IDLE. NOTE 1: The PROCESSING ACTIVE state of the Processing State Model example in SEMI E30 would be a substate of BUSY. Other substatesmay exist for maintenance and diagnostics. 8.4 State Model Relationships  Figure 4 shows the ARAMS State Model and the General Equipment OperationsModel as both simultaneously active. Certain relationships exist between the two models. Figure 4ARAMS State Model and General Equipment Operations Model

&lt;!-- Page 34 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200315 1.14.7 Both models cover all time, twenty-four hourseach day. The ARAMS State Model describes how theequipment is used in the factory. The GeneralEquipment Operations Model describes theequipments activities, including the time when it hasno power and is completely inactive.1.14.7.1 The General Equipment Operations Model isprovided to clarify two specific areas of relationship: The transitions related to powerup (#2),powerdown (#3), soft re-boot (#5), and reset (#6). The IDLE and BUSY activity states.1.14.7.2 The term reset is used in this document tocollectively represent both the soft re-boot and thehardware reset where no powerdown occurs.1.14.7.3 Requirements related to powerup,powerdown, re-boot, and reset are specified in Section16.NOTE 15: Although the equipment is unable to detect acondition of no power, it is able to detect when theINITIALIZING state has been entered and is able todifferentiate between a hard reset (Transition 6) and a soft re-boot (Transition 5).8.4.1 IDLE and BUSY  By definition, the equipmentis not in the IDLE state and in the PRODUCTIVE stateat the same time, and it is not intended to be in theBUSY state while in STANDBY. The PRODUCTIVEand STANDBY states correspond to implicit substatesof the BUSY and IDLE states only for the time theequipment is within the MANUFACTURINGsuperstate  that is, it is scheduled for manufacturing(non-engineering factory operations) and is in acondition to perform its intended function.1.14.7.4 Occasional exceptions may occur due toimproper timing of a user request to change to amanufacturing state before the equipment completes anon-processing activity started in another state. Forexample, the equipment may be performing anautomatic calibration during routine maintenance in adowntime state. In this case, the equipment determinesthat its production criteria are not satisfied and shalltransition to STANDBY, as it is busy performing afunction other than its intended function.8.4.2 Non-Manufacturing States  The equipmentmay be in any of the POWER-OFF, INITIALIZING,IDLE, or BUSY states in the General EquipmentOperations Model while in any of the non-manufacturing states: ENGINEERING,UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME, SCHEDULEDDOWNTIME, or NON-SCHEDULED TIME. Forexample, it may be powered off while being installed(NON-SCHEDULED TIME) or repaired (SCHEDULED or UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME). Itmay be required to perform its normal processing cycle(its intended function) in ENGINEERING, NON-SCHEDULED TIME or in a downtime state. 9 ARAMS Substate Codes1.15 This section defines the format for ARAMSSubstate Codes and a set of reserved values for genericsubstates based on the descriptions in SEMI E10. Theformat is defined specifically to allow further resolutionof the six basic SEMI E10 equipment states by both thefactory and equipment supplier.1.15.1 An ARAMS Substate Code consists of fourordered alphanumeric text characters, where the firsttwo characters are reserved digits. The first characterindicates the primary ARAMS state as follows:1. PRODUCTIVE2. STANDBY3. ENGINEERING4. SCHEDULED DOWNTIME5. UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME6. NON-SCHEDULED TIME1.15.2 The second character of the code, if non-zero,indicates a substate of the primary state. A zero in thesecond position indicates no substate has been selected.This may also be referred to as a substate of default.1.15.3 Codes of the form n000 indicate no substatesof a basic state have been selected. This is the defaultcode for that basic state. For example, a code of1000 indicates the PRODUCTIVE state with nosubstates.1.15.4 Descriptive formatted text is defined tocorrespond to each ARAMS code. The first threecharacters of this text represent the basic state. If thenext character is a forward slash /, then subsequenttext represents a substate of the basic state.9.1 Reserved Codes  States and substates referencedby the reserved text in this section are based on SEMIE10 specifications. For further definition ofterminology, see SEMI E10.1.15.5 The following ARAMS Substate Codes, andthe corresponding descriptive text strings for theEnglish language (delimited by quotes), are reserved.Descriptive text with a substate of Reserved indicatesthe corresponding code is reserved for future expansionby this standard.1.15.6 In the future, text strings in other languagesmay also be reserved. Equipment supporting otherlanguages shall provide a method for the user to define

&lt;!-- Page 35 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 16 alternative text strings. This provides the consistency,across different equipment, that is important to the user.PRODUCTIVE1000 PRD (default productive code)1100 PRD/Regular production1200 PRD/Work for third parties1300 PRD/Rework1400 PRD/Engineering runs1500 PRD/Reserved\*1600 PRD/Reserved1700 PRD/Reserved1800 PRD/Reserved1900 PRD/ReservedSTANDBY2000 SBY (default standby code)2100 SBY/No operator2200 SBY/No product2300 SBY/No support tool\*2400 SBY/Associated cluster module down2500 SBY/No host2600 SBY/Reserved2700 SBY/Reserved2800 SBY/Reserved2900 SBY/Reserved\* NOTE: A support tool is a mechanical device used by, butnot part of, the equipment. This includes cassettes, probecards, etc.ENGINEERING3000 ENG (default engineering code)3100 ENG/Process experiments3200 ENG/Equipment experiments3300 ENG/Reserved3400 ENG/Reserved3500 ENG/Reserved3600 ENG/Reserved3700 ENG/Reserved3800 ENG/Reserved3900 ENG/Reserved SCHEDULED DOWNTIME4000 SDT (default scheduled downtime code)4100 SDT/User maintenance delay4200 SDT/Supplier maintenance delay4300 SDT/Preventive maintenance4400 SDT/Change of consumables4500 SDT/Setup4600 SDT/Production test4700 SDT/Facilities-related4800 SDT/Reserved4900 SDT/ReservedUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME5000 UDT (default unscheduled downtimecode)5100 UDT/User maintenance delay5200 UDT/Supplier maintenance delay5300 UDT/Repair5400 UDT/Out-of-spec input material5500 UDT/Change of consumables5600 UDT/Facilities-related5700 UDT/Reserved5800 UDT/Reserved5900 UDT/ReservedNON-SCHEDULED TIME6000 NST (default non-scheduleddowntime code)6100 NST/Unworked shifts6200 NST/Equipment installation6300 NST/Equipment modifications (modify,rebuild, upgrade)6400 NST/Off-line training6500 NST/Shutdown/startup6600 NST/Reserved6700 NST/Reserved6800 NST/Reserved6900 NST/Reserved9.2 Additional Codes  Additional codes may bedefined by both the user and supplier, subject to thefollowing constraints:

&lt;!-- Page 36 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200317  The new code defines a refinement of a primaryARAMS state, as defined in Section 9, through useof the characters in the third and fourth positions. Alphabetic characters are permitted in the third andfourth positions. For purposes of sorting, thesecharacters are assumed to be case-sensitive. Allcharacters other than alphanumeric are prohibited. The third character is used to differentiate betweencodes defined by the user (factory) and thosedefined by the equipment supplier. If the thirdcharacter is a digit, then the code is user defined.Otherwise, the code is supplier-defined. The user isfree to assign values between 01 and 9z as thethird and fourth characters, while the supplier mayassign values between A0 and zz.\* NOTE: Additional reserved codes may be added to Section9.2 in the future.1.15.7 Code definitions are exchanged as ARAMSSubstate Tables, described in Section 10.3.9.3 Valid ARAMS Substate Code  A valid ARAMSSubstate Code is defined as any code with fouralphanumeric characters where the first character is adigit between 1 and 6 and the second character is a digitbetween 0 and 9.9.4 Manufacturing Code  A user request for theequipment to go to manufacturing specifies a specialcode of 0000. The code 0000 is not itself anARAMS Substate Code and shall not be used as a coderepresenting the current ARAMS state/substate in thevariable ARAMSState. 10 ARAMS Tables1.16 The information in this section is not requiredunless the equipment supports one or both of the twoARAMS Tables defined in Sections 10.3 and 10.4respectively.1.16.1 ARAMS defines two sets of data that are to beexchanged between equipment and host. These sets ofdata are transferred as tables. A table is a vehicle forexchanging information and is independent of actualstorage mechanisms.1.16.2 This section introduces the concept anddefinitions of a generic table and defines the twospecific types of tables required by ARAMS, theARAMS Substate Table, and the ARAMS SymptomTable. 10.1 Definition of Tables  A table represents ageneral way of exchanging sets of data arranged in atabular format. A table consists of one or more orderedsets of data, called rows, where the format andinterpretation of each element of data within a rowdepends upon its relative position within the row, calledcolumn. Tables are transferred by providing: An ordered list of predefined text strings, calledcolumn headers, that identify the data element atthe corresponding column position within eachrow, one or more rows of data, where each row is anordered set of individual data elements, presentedin the order specified by the column headers, and a set of information (attributes) about the table as awhole.10.1.1 Table Types and Identifiers  Each instance ofa table has a formally defined table type and a tableidentifier. This allows definition of general-purposeservices for exchanging tables. It also allows multipleinstances of a specific type of table to be referenced.OSS-compliant applications consider a table as a typeof object, and a table type as a specialization of a table.1.16.2.1 The table type definition includesspecification of a reserved text string that begins withthe string Table. Table services (Section 15) and OSSservices (SEMI E39) use the reserved text string as theObjType attribute of the table object. The general tabledefinition does not specify requirements for assigningidentifiers to individual tables.1.16.2.2 The table identifier is a text string thatconforms to the requirements for an object identifier(ObjID) as specified in SEMI E39, which prohibitsspecific characters in ASCII. The identifier is used toidentify a specific instance of a given table type andshall be unique for all tables of a given type.1.16.2.3 A column in a table refers to all data elementsat a given position across all rows of the table. Columnheaders are pre-defined text strings that identify theindividual elements used and their relative order withineach row.1.16.3 Table Row Definition  A formal table typerequires definition of the individual data elementswithin a row of the table and the specification of thecolumn header. This information is provided in Table 3. Table 3 Table 3 Definition for Table Row Format Column Header Data Element Definition Form

&lt;!-- Page 37 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 18 Text string for column position. Definition of data element at the corresponding column position. Valid form for data element. 1.16.3.1 The order of elements within a row shall be invariant for a given table instance and shall strictly conformto the order in which column headers are presented. The length of any given row (the number of elements within therow) may not exceed the number of defined positions (columns). Partial rows that omit elements at the end of therow are permitted by the general definition, so long as they retain the meaning of the column positions included.That is, if a complete row consists of n columns, then an individual row may consist of the first m elements, for m ≤n.1.16.3.2 The first element (first column position) of a row must contain a value that is unique for all rows within aspecific table instance. This value may be used as a key to identify a specific row within the table and therefore shallbe a single item (e.g., not a list or structure) and may not be a floating point number. Other elements within the rowmay be simple lists or simple structures that do not themselves contain embedded (nested) lists or structures.10.1.2 Table Attributes  It is also important to be able to exchange information about the table itself. In additionto the definition of data elements and columns, tables also have predefined attributes. The general table definitionspecifies three attributes: the number of columns, the number of rows, and the size of the table exclusive offormatting used for storing or transferring the table. (See Section 13.2.)10.1.3 Additional Requirements  Specific table types may have additional requirements and restrictions.1.16.3.3 ARAMS tables, defined in Sections 10.3 and 10.4, have additional requirements as follows: Tables shall be stored in non-volatile memory and shall be capable of subsequent modifications. Elements within a row shall follow the order specified in the table definitions. All rows shall consist of the full number of columns specified. Partial rows are prohibited.1.16.3.4 A table is considered structurally valid if it conforms to the requirements in this section and to the rowformat defined for its specific type. A structurally valid table may or may not have correct content  that is, thevalues within any given row may or may not meet other requirements or expectations.1.16.3.5 ARAMS tables are provided only for use by the operator and the associated data sent to the host.Equipment shall not reject a user-defined table that is structurally valid for its table type because of its contents.Equipment shall not use the contents of tables to validate ARAMS Substate Codes or symptom informationprovided by the host.1.16.3.6 Certain errors in the contents may cause the tables to not work properly in some way. For example, if arow identifier is used more than once, then the equipment may fail to find any but the first occurrence. However, theuser shall accept responsibilities for any errors in the contents of ARAMS tables.10.2 ARAMS Substate Table  The ARAMS Substate Table provides extensions to the generic substate definitionscontained in Section 9.1.16.4 Each row in an ARAMS Substate Table consists of a four-character ARAMS Substate Code as the firstelement of the row, and a corresponding text string containing a brief description of the state as the second element.Table 4 defines the ARAMS Substate Table row format.Table 4 Table 4 ARAMS Substate Table Row Definition Column Header Data Element Definition FormCode ARAMS Substate Code. Four-character text string.Text Brief description of ARAMS Substate Code. Formatted text, Sections 9.1, 9.2. 1.16.5 The descriptive text is displayed as a prompt or selection item for the operator when selecting a newARAMS state. The description selected is placed in the variable ARAMSText and the corresponding ARAMSSubstate Code is placed in the variable ARAMSState as the new ARAMS state (see Section 11.2).1.16.6 Extensions to ARAMS codes may be defined by either the user or supplier according to the rules in Section9.3. The ARAMS Substate Table provides a formal method for each to obtain the codes and text defined by the

&lt;!-- Page 38 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200319 other. The tables identifier provides a method for differentiating between the three sets of information (genericdefinitions, user-defined definitions, and supplier-defined definitions) when necessary to remove ambiguity incommunications. The user at all times shall be able to select an ARAMS state or substate based on the combinationof the three sources of definitions.1.16.7 An ARAMS Substate Table has a table type of TableARAMSCode. The row format is defined in Table 4.10.3 ARAMS Symptom Table  The user may define an optional table of common human-observable symptomscalled the ARAMS Symptom Table, with a table type of TableARAMSSymptom. The row of this table is definedin Table 5 below. Table 5 Table 5 ARAMS Symptom Table Row Definition Column Header Data Element Definition FormID Identifier of ARAMS symptom. Unsigned integer.Indicator First one to four characters of ARAMS code to which symptom may beapplied.Formatted text. 1 to 4 characters.(See Sections 9.29.3.)Text Brief description of ARAMS symptom. Text. Maximum length is 80characters. 1.16.8 Each table row consists of three items: a symptom identifier, an ARAMS substate indicator, and a text stringdescribing the symptom.1.16.9 The symptom identifier and text are analogous to the equipments alarm or exception identifier andcorresponding text description. The identifier and text should each be unique. A symptom identifier with a value ofzero is reserved to indicate no symptom.1.16.10 The substate indicator consists of the first one to four characters of an ARAMS Substate Code andindicates the ARAMS state or state/substate where the symptom is to be applied. For example, a symptom that is tobe applied whenever the user requests a change to the UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME state, including any of itssubstates, is assigned an indicator of 5. A symptom that is to be applied in any case of UDT/change ofconsumable would use an indicator of 55 as the first two digits of the corresponding ARAMS code.1.16.11 Whenever the operator requests a change in the ARAMS state or substate, the operator shall be presentedwith the text descriptions from the appropriate Symptom Table. The text description of the selection is placed in thestatus variable SymptomText, and the corresponding identifier is placed in SymptomID. 11 ARAMS Data1.17 This section defines the data requirements for ARAMS. This includes requirements for retaining data across apowerdown or reset. Data retention requirements are classified for each item of ARAMS data in one of thefollowing ways:Class 1  A soft value that is reset to a default value as part of system initialization (e.g., DowntimeAlarm)Class 2  A hard value that never changes (e.g., EqpSerialNum)Class 3  A firm value that changes infrequently and is to be retained in non-volatile memory (e.g.,EqpName)Class 4  A dynamic value that is retained in non-volatile memory and changes whenever an ARAMS statetransition occurs.Class 5  A very dynamic value that may change rapidly and is important to retain but does not require absoluteaccuracy (e.g., CycleCtr for high throughput equipment). Current values shall be saved in non-volatile memoryperiodically at least once per minute.1.17.1 Except where otherwise specified, data is assumed to be Class 1.1.17.2 Variables within each section are presented in alphabetical order.

&lt;!-- Page 39 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 20 11.1 Status Information  Status data is informationthat is maintained by equipment and in general cannotbe changed by the host. This section defines specificelements of status data that the user is able to read uponrequest and that may be included in event reportmessages to the host.1.17.3 A mechanism shall be provided for the user toread these values.1.17.4 All date/time values are text strings with atimestamp format (see Section 4).NOTE 16: The timestamp format is not a requirement forclock precision.NOTE 17: Subsequent references to subsections of 11.2below are using the original numbers.11.1.1 ARAMSInfo  Additional information set orcleared by the equipment at the time an ARAMS statetransition occurs. Optional. Form: text. 080 characters.11.1.2 ARAMSState  The ARAMS Substate Codecorresponding to the ARAMS state/substate thatbecame active following the most recent ARAMS statetransition. When an ARAMS state transition occurs,ARAMSState is the specific code representing the newARAMS state/substate. It shall be retained as Class 4data. The value of 0000 is prohibited. Form:formatted alphanumeric text. 4 characters.11.1.3 ARAMSText  The descriptive textcorresponding to the code in ARAMSState. Form: text.580 characters.11.1.4 Clock  Contains the current value of the dateand time at the equipment. When included in an eventreport, Clock represents the timestamp for theoccurrence of the event. Clock may represent thecurrent value of a real-time date/time clock availableupon demand. Form: formatted text.11.1.5 CycleCtr  The number of cycles (equipmentcycles) during the lifetime of the equipment (notresettable). It shall be retained as Class 5 data. Form:unsigned integer.NOTE 18: See SEMI E10 for a formal definition of cycle.11.1.6 DowntimeAlarm  Identifier of the most recentalarm or exception triggering an equipment-initiatedtransition to SCHEDULED DOWNTIME orUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME from the PRODUC-TIVE or STANDBY states. This value is reset to zerofor all other ARAMS state transitions to indicate noassociated alarm/exception. Form: unsigned integer.11.1.7 DowntimeAlarmText  Text associated withDowntimeAlarm. This value is cleared (set to a zero-length string) for all ARAMS state transitions exceptthe transition to SCHEDULED DOWNTIME or UN- SCHEDULED DOWNTIME from the PRODUCTIVEor STANDBY states. Form: text. 080 characters.11.1.8 DowntimeData  Text associated with tran-sitions to, or within, the SCHEDULED or UNSCHED-ULED DOWNTIME states. For transitions followingpowerup/reset (see Section 8.5.2), the value in Down-timeData shall be set to Power Loss. This value isreset to a zero length (empty) string for other ARAMSstate transitions. When associated with equipment initi-ated transitions, this may be used to carry fault infor-mation (e.g., the component serial number of a repairedcomponent, as defined by the equipment supplied).When associated with operator-initiated transitions, itmay consist of comments entered at the equipmentscontrol panel. Form: text. 0256 characters.11.1.9 LastPowerdown  Contains a date/time time-stamp that estimates the time when the last loss ofpower or reset occurred (Transition 11), based on thevalue in PowerdownTime on powerup. It shall beretained as Class 3 data. Form: formatted text.11.1.10 PowerdownTime  Contains a date/timetimestamp used as an estimate for the timestamp forloss of power or reset and used for reports associatedwith ARAMS state Transition 11. It shall be retained asClass 5 data. Form: formatted text.11.1.11 PrdState  The ARAMS code correspondingto the last user-specified ARAMS Substate Code forPRODUCTIVE. Used as the default substate forPRODUCTIVE. Initialized to 1000 at Transition 1.Form: formatted alphanumeric text. 4 characters.11.1.12 PrevARAMSState  The ARAMS codecorresponding to the ARAMS state/substate that wasactive immediately preceding the most recent ARAMSstate transition. This value is useful forresynchronization after a period of inability tocommunicate. It shall be retained as Class 4 data. Form:formatted alphanumeric text. 4 characters.11.1.13 SymptomID  A numeric identifier of asymptom selected by the user when requesting theequipment to change states. A value of zero isequivalent to a selection of no symptom. Form:unsigned integer.11.1.14 SymptomText  The descriptive text for thesymptom selected by the user when requesting theequipment to change states. A zero-length stringcorresponds to a selection of no symptom. Form: text.080 characters.11.2 Constant Data  Equipment shall provide andmaintain the following values as class 2 data. Thesevalues are set by the equipment manufacturer and shallnot be changeable by the user. These data elements arerequired for equipment with formally defined

&lt;!-- Page 40 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200321 components that are also ARAMS compliant, such asclustertools. This data is used for event reports, toidentify the original source of the event.11.2.1 EqpModel  A text string containing theequipment model. Form: 180 characters.11.2.2 EqpSerialNum  A text string containing theproduct serial number assigned by the supplier. Form:180 characters.11.3 User-Configurable Data  The data elements inthis section shall be settable by both the operator andthe host. They shall be retained as Class 3 data.11.3.1 EngInterrupt (optional)  A Boolean value thatenables (TRUE) or disables (FALSE) equipment-initiated transitions from ENGINEERING toUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME (Transition 14 inFigure 2) when a fault condition is detected. Thisvariable is required if EngRecovery is supported. Form:Boolean.11.3.2 EngRecovery (optional)  A Boolean valuethat enables (TRUE) or disables (FALSE) automaticrecovery returning to ENGINEERING fromUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME (Transition 15 inFigure 2) following an equipment-detected fault thathas spontaneously cleared. Form: Boolean.11.3.3 EqpName (required)  A text stringrepresenting the user-assigned logical name of theequipment. Form: 180 characters.NOTE 19: For OSS-compliant equipment, this correspondsto the ObjID attribute of the object Agent, PM, CM, orTM in other standards.11.3.4 PowerupState (optional)  A text characterindicating the powerup (default entry) state when apowerdown occurs during manufacturing time. May beeither 2 for STANDBY or 5 for UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME.11.3.5 PrdRecovery (optional)  A boolean value thatenables (TRUE) or disables (FALSE) the equipment-initiated return to PRODUCTIVE (Transition 6 inFigure 2) following an equipment-detected fault thathas cleared without operator intervention. Form:boolean.11.3.6 SbyRecovery (optional)  A boolean value thatenables (TRUE) or disables (FALSE) the equipment-initiated return to STANDBY (Transition 8 in Figure 2)following an equipment-detected fault that has cleared.Form: boolean.11.3.7 SubstateSelect (optional)  A Boolean valuethat enables (TRUE) or disables (FALSE) equipment-initiated selection of substates of STANDBY and PRODUCTIVE (including Transitions 12 and 13).Form: Boolean.11.4 Accumulators  This section defines a set ofoptional accumulators that either count time in one ofthe six basic SEMI E10 states or count interruptionsoccurring in the PRODUCTIVE state. It shall bepossible for both the operator and host to (1) adjust thevalues in the individual accumulators, and (2) reset allseven values to zero simultaneously. Operator and hostassume responsibility for the edited values and theiraccuracy. Equipment shall not impose restrictions onthe modified values.1.17.5 In addition, two timestamps are required forsupport of the accumulators. These timestamps shall notbe changed by the user.1.17.5.1 Where accumulators are supported, thevariables defined in this section shall be supported as aset as Class 4 data.1.17.5.2 The time accumulators are reported inminutes with an accuracy of ± one minute. Internalrepresentations of the accumulators in smaller unitsmay be required for short processes.11.4.1 ARAMSAccumReset  The timestamp of whenthe following seven accumulators were last reset tozero. Form: formatted numeric text.11.4.2 ARAMSTimestamp  The timestamp of themost recent ARAMS state change to the state identifiedin ARAMSState. This value is updated whenever atransition to a new ARAMS state occurs and is used inconjunction with PowerdownTime to update theaccumulators following a powerup or reset. Form:formatted numeric text.11.4.3 EngTime  Time in ENGINEERING.11.4.4 InterruptionPrd  The number of transitions toUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME from PRODUCTIVE.NOTE 20: This includes the equipment-initiated Transition 5,a user-initiated transition covered by Transition 10, and thepowerdown Transition 11, when occurring fromPRODUCTIVE.11.4.5 InterruptionTotal  The total number oftransitions to UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME fromany state. This includes equipment-initiated transitionsand user-initiated transitions.11.4.6 NSTime  Time in NON-SCHEDULED TIME.11.4.7 PrdTime  Time in PRODUCTIVE.11.4.8 SbyTime  Time in STANDBY.11.4.9 SDTime  Time in SCHEDULEDDOWNTIME.

&lt;!-- Page 41 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 22 11.4.10 UDTime  Time in UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME. 12 Events and Pre-Defined Event Reports1.18 Each transition in the ARAMS State Model, withthe exception of Transitions 2 and 11, represents aunique collection event that shall be reportable to thehost. A generic collection event ARAMS State Changeshall be provided that corresponds to any ARAMS statechange. This allows greater efficiency for common datato be placed in a single report.1.19 The equipment shall support one of the twofollowing requirements: The capability of allowing the host to definereports associated with each ARAMS state changeevent, or A set of pre-defined (default) event reports for theARAMS State Change Event, equipment-initiatedtransitions to UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME(Transitions 5 and 7, and Transition 1 asappropriate), and user-initiated transitions toUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME.1.20 The pre-defined reports, defined below, arelabeled A, B, and C, for ease of reference only.Report A represents the information required forevery ARAMS State Change Event. Implementations ofthese reports shall provide, at a minimum, the updatedvalues of the indicated variables.Report AARAMS State Change EventEqpModelEqpSerialNumEqpNameClockARAMSStatePrevARAMSState Report BEquipment-Initiated Transitions toUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME EventDowntimeAlarmDowntimeAlarmTextDowntimeDataReport CUser-Initiated TransitionSymptomIDSymptomTextDowntimeData 13 Object Services ComplianceThis section provides information required forequipment that is OSS-compliant. OSS compliance isnot required for ARAMS compliance.13.1 Equipment Object  ARAMS-compliantequipment (equipment subsystems) that are compliantto OSS (SEMI E39) and that provide an objectrepresenting the equipment (equipment subsystems)shall include as attributes of that object the attributeslisted in Table 6.1.20.1 The data element Clock may be represented bya Clock object. In this case, Clock is not an attribute ofthe Equipment object but is a component of theEquipment object and is accessible through OSSservices.1.20.2 Table 6 defines the variables specified in earliersections as object attributes conformant with therequirements of OSS. The column labeled Accessindicates whether the attribute is read-only (RO) orread-write (RW), and the column labeled Reqdindicates if the attribute is required for ARAMScompliance. Table 6 Table 6 ARAMS Object Attribute DefinitionsAttribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormARAMSAccumReset Timestamp for when time-in-state accumulators were lastreset to zero. Required if accumulators are supported.RO N Formatted numeric text:timestamp format.ARAMSInfo Additional information set by the equipment at the time ofan ARAMS state transition.RO N Text. 080 characters. ARAMSState Code corresponding to currently selected ARAMSstate/substate.RO Y Formatted alphanumerictext. 4 characters.ARAMSText Descriptive text corresponding to code in ARAMSState. RO Y Text. 580 characters.

&lt;!-- Page 42 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200323 Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormARAMSTimestamp Timestamp of last ARAMS state change. RO N Formatted numeric text:timestamp format.Clock (See NOTE 1.) Current time and date. RW Y Formatted numeric text:timestamp format.CycleCtr Non-resettable counter of equipment run cycles. RO Y Unsigned integer.DowntimeAlarm Identifier of last alarm or exception triggering anequipment-initiated transition to a downtime state and/orsubstate. RO Y Text. Conforms toObjID. DowntimeAlarmText Text associated with DowntimeAlarm. RO Y Text. 080 characters.DowntimeData Equipment-defined text associated with transitions todowntime state and/or substate.RO Y Text. 0256 characters. EngInterrupt Enables (TRUE) or disables (FALSE) an equipment-initiated transition from ENGINEERING toUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME. Required in EngRecoveryis supported. RW N Boolean. EngRecovery Enables (TRUE) or disables (FALSE) automatic recoveryfrom UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME to ENGINEERING.RW N Boolean. EngTime Accumulated minutes in the ENGINEERING state/substate.Required if accumulators are supported.RW N Unsigned integer. EqpModel The equipment model. RO Y Text. 180 characters.EqpSerialNum Equipment serial number. RO Y Text. 180 characters.InterruptionPrd Counts number of transitions from PRODUCTIVE toUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME. Required if accumulatorsare supported. RW N Unsigned integer. InterruptionTotal Counts total number of transitions to UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME. Required if accumulators are supported.RW N Unsigned integer. LastPowerdown Estimate of last powerdown time. RO Y Formatted numeric text:timestamp format.NSTime Accumulated minutes in NON-SCHEDULED TIMEstate/substate. Required if accumulators are supported.RW N Unsigned integer. PowerdownTime Estimate of powerdown time. RO Y Formatted numeric text:timestamp format.PowerupState Indicates the powerdown state when powerdown occursduring manufacturing time.RW N Text digit:2 = standby,5 =unscheduleddowntime.PrdRecovery Enables (TRUE) or disables (FALSE) the equipment-initiated return to PRODUCTIVE from UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME. Required for support of automaticequipment-initiated recovery. RW N Boolean. PrdState The last ARAMS code specified by the user forPRODUCTIVE.RO Y Formatted alphanumerictext. 4 characters.PrdTime Accumulated minutes in PRODUCTIVE state/substate.Required if accumulators are supported.RW N Unsigned integer. PrevARAMSState ARAMS Substate Code corresponding to state prior to laststate transition.RO Y Formatted alphanumerictext. 4 characters.SDTime Accumulated minutes in SCHEDULED DOWNTIMEstate/substate. Required if accumulators are supported.RW N Unsigned integer. SbyRecovery Enables or disables the equipment-initiated return toSTANDBY from UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME.Required for support of automatic equipment-initiatedrecovery. RW N Boolean. SbyTime Accumulated minutes in STANDBY state/substate.Required if accumulators are supported.RW N Unsigned integer.

&lt;!-- Page 43 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 24 Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormSubstateSelect Enables (TRUE) or disables (FALSE) equipment-initiatedselection of substates in PRODUCTIVE and STANDBY.RW N Boolean. SymptomID The identifier of a symptom selected by the user whenrequesting a state change.RO Y Text. Conforms toObjID.SymptomText The descriptive text of the symptom selected by the userwhen requesting a state change.RO Y Text. 080 characters. UDTime Accumulated minutes in UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIMEstate/substate. Required if accumulators are supported.RW N Unsigned integer. NOTE 1: The Clock attribute may be replaced by a Clock object having a DateTime attribute, as defined in SEMI E38. 1.21 Table Objects  Table 7 defines the attributes of a generic table. This is an abstract type of object that is notitself directly implemented. Specific table types, which require definitions of their row formats (Section 10.2), aresubtypes of the generic table supertype and inherit all of the attributes of the supertype (see SEMI E39, Appendix).Table 7 Table 7 Table Object Attribute DefinitionAttribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormObjType The object type. RO Y Text = Table.ObjID The objects identifier. RO Y Text. 180 characters.NumCols Number of columns. RO Y Unsigned integer.NumRows Number of rows. RO Y Unsigned integer.DataLength Total number of bytes required to store the table elements,exclusive of any formatting required for storage or transfer.RO Y Unsigned integer. 1.22 Different applications may define additional table attributes for specific table types. The subtypes defined byARAMS (Sections 10.3 and 10.4) are TableARAMSCode and TableARAMSSymptom and have no additionalattributes. 2 Human Interface RequirementsThis section provides a central location for requirements affecting the human interface. It specifies the functions thatshall be available to the operator through the equipments console (human interface), where the equipment providessuch an interface. Applications that do not otherwise provide such an interface (e.g., cluster modules) are exemptedfrom these requirements.13.2 Data Access  All supported data elements defined in Section 11 shall be accessible to the operator.Specifically, the operator shall be able to view all ARAMS data provided by the equipment and shall be able tomodify the values of all data defined in Section 11.4.2.1.1 Where the accumulators defined in Section 11.5 are supported, the operator shall be able to change theirindividual values, with the exception of ARAMSAccumReset, and to reset the entire set together.13.3 Selection of an ARAMS State/Substate  The operator shall be able to select any of the standard ARAMSstates and substates defined in Section 9.2, exclusive of those definitions with a Reserved substate that arereserved for future standards. The operator shall also be able to select MANUFACTURING.2.1.2 Where ARAMS Substate Tables are provided with user-defined or supplier-defined extensions, theseextensions shall also be available to the operator for selecting a change in the current ARAMS state and /or substate.2.1.3 When selecting a SCHEDULED DOWNTIME or UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME state/substate, theoperator shall be able to enter a comment to be stored in DowntimeData (Section 11.2.10).

&lt;!-- Page 44 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200325 13.4 User-Defined ARAMS Symptom Tables  WhereARAMS Symptom Tables are supported, thedescriptive text for symptoms provided within existingARAMS Symptom Tables shall be presented to theoperator for selection, according to the specifications inSection 10.4, at the time the operator selects anARAMS State (Section 14.3). The operator is notrequired to select a symptom. If the operator selects asymptom, the symptom identifier is stored in thevariable SymptomID and the descriptive text is storedin SymptomText.13.5 Table Access  Where the equipment supportsone or both types of tables specified by ARAMS(Sections 10.3 and 10.4), the operator shall have fullaccess to entries within those tables that are user-defined. The operator shall be able to enter (define),modify, and delete user-defined entries within ARAMStable. The operator shall not be able to change or deletethe generic ARAMS Substate Codes defined in Section9 or supplier extensions to those generic codes.2.1.4 The operator shall be able to read the contents ofall existing ARAMS tables.13.6 Color Codes  The use of color associated withthe display of ARAMS state information is optional. Toensure consistency for the user, the following colorschemes shall be applied for all cases where color isassociated with an ARAMS state.Uptime statesPRODUCTIVE: greenSTANDBY: yellowENGINEERING: blueDowntime statesSCHEDULED DOWNTIME: light redUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME: redOther NON-SCHEDULED TIME: grey2.1.5 This scheme provides a visual grouping.NOTE 21: The colors used for the two downtime statesshould be both clearly related and readily distinguishable,such as pink and bright red. 3 Services3.1 This section formally defines the message servicesspecifically required to support ARAMS functionality.3.1.1 Formal definition has three parts: A list of the services defined (Table 8), a common parameter dictionary defining all of theparameters of these services (Table 9), and a dictionary of the individual services that definesthe parameters used by each service.3.1.2 Services that are used by ARAMS, but are notspecific to ARAMS, are defined by other standards andare referenced in Section 3.3.1.3 Both the equipment and the host provide theservices TableSend and TableRequest, and both mayuse the services provided by the other. The serviceARAMSStateChange is provided by equipment only.3.1.4 Table 8 lists the ARAMS services. There are twotypes of services: An initial message and response between theservice user and the service provider. A notification message from the service provider tothe service user that does not require a response.3.1.5 The column in Table 8 that is called Type isused to indicate whether the service consists of arequest/response message pair (R) or a singlenotification message (N). Table 8 Table 8 ARAMS Services Message Service Name Type DescriptionTableSend R Used by the service user to send or delete a table.TableRequest R A request to receive a table.ResetAccumulators R A request to reset the set of accumulators.ARAMSStateChange R Request to go to a specified ARAMS state/substate. 3.1.6 Figure 5 shows the message flow for each of the above ARAMS services.

&lt;!-- Page 45 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 26 Figure 5ARAM Service Message Flow13.7 Services Parameter Dictionary  Table 9 defines all of the parameters, including the elements of complexparameters, used in ARAMS message services. Parameters are listed in alphabetical order.3.1.7 The Form column in Table 9 indicates the data type for the parameter. A list of the standard data types forForm is included in Section 4.3.Table 9 Table 9 ARAMS Services Parameter DictionaryParameter Definition FormARAMSCode ARAMS state/substate code. Alphanumeric text with fixed length of four characters.AttrData The value of an attribute. Varies with attribute.AttrName The attributes name. Text. Varies with object type.ColHdr Column header. Text. 120 characters.ErrorCode Contains the code for the specific errorfound.Enumerated. ErrorText Text in support of the error code to provideadditional information.Text. ObjSpec The object specifier, used to specify theowner of the target object.Formatted text. RequestStatus The result of the request to change to a newARAMS state/substate.Enumerated:0 = Acknowledge, action has been effected.2 = Cannot perform now.3 = Invalid parameter4 = Acknowledge, action will be performed withcompletion signaled later by an event.6 = Object unknown.Status Error information. Structure consisting of ErrorCode and ErrorText.SymptomID The numeric symptom identifier. Unsigned integer.SymptomText Descriptive text for symptom. Text. 080 characters.TableAck Indicates the success (=T) or failure (=F) ofthe operation.Boolean. TableAttr A table attribute other than object (table)type or object (table) identifier. (See NOTE1.) Structure consisting of AttrName and AttrData. TableCmd Instructions concerning the table transfer. Enumerated:Entire tableAdd new rowsAppend new columnsReplace existing rowsReplace existing columnsTableElem One of the basic elements of a table. Varies with table type and (column) position within the row.TableID Table identifier. Text. 180 characters.

&lt;!-- Page 46 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200327 Parameter Definition FormTableRow A row of the table in terms of its elementsTableElem.Structure, consisting of different table elements, following theorder of the column headers.TableStatus Information concerning the success orfailure of the operation.Structure consisting of TableAck and (List of) Status. TableType Type of table. Text = TableARAMSCode or TableARAMSSymptom.NOTE 1: ARAMS tables use only the general table attributes: number of rows, number of columns, and table length. 3.2 TableSend  The TableSend service is used to transfer or delete a table.3.2.1 Table 10 defines the parameters for the TableSend service. A table that is not structurally valid shall berejected and discarded.Table 10 Table 10 TableSend ServiceParameter Req/Ind Rsp/Conf DescriptionObjSpec C - The object specifier, used to specify the owner of the target object. When omitted,the receiver of the message is intended.TableType M M Signifies the type of table to be sent.TableID C C(=) Table identifier. Required for table type TableARAMSSymptom.TableCmd M - Instructions about the table being transferred.TableAttr (list of) M - The tables attributes.ColHdr (list of) M - Table column headers.TableRow (list of) C - Table contents, organized by rows. Rows may or may not be ordered, depending onthe definition for a specific table type. Must be omitted when deleting a table.TableStatus - M Information concerning the success or failure of the request. 3.3 TableRequest  The TableRequest service is used to request the service provider to send a table. A table that isnot structurally valid shall be discarded.3.3.1 Table 11 defines the parameters for the TableRequest service.Table 11 Table 11 TableRequest Service Parameter Req/Ind Rsp/Conf DescriptionObjSpec C - The object specifier, used to specify the owner of the target object. When omitted,the receiver of the message is intended.TableType M M Signifies the type of table to be sent.TableID C C(=) Table identifier. Required for table type TableARAMSSymptom.TableCmd M - Instructions about the table being transferred.TableElem (list of) C - Row identifiers of requested rows. If omitted, entire table is requested.TableAttr (list of) - M Table attributes.ColHdr (list of) - M Table column headers. Omitted only if table for specified type and identifier doesnot exist.TableRow (list of) - M Table rows. Omitted only if table for specified type and identifier does not exist.TableStatus - M Information concerning the success or failure of the request. 3.4 ARAMSStateChange  The ARAMSStateChange service is sent to the service provider to request a change toa new ARAMS state/substate.3.4.1 Table 12 defines the parameters for the ARAMSStateChange service.

&lt;!-- Page 47 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 28 Table 12 Table 12 ARAMSStateChange ServiceParameter Req/Ind Rsp/Conf DescriptionObjSpec C - The object specifier, used to specify the owner of the target object. When omitted,the receiver of the message is intended.ARAMSCode M - New ARAMS state/substate requested.SymptomID C - ARAMS Symptom ID. Optional.SymptomText C - Symptom description. Optional.RequestStatus - M Information concerning the success or failure of the request. 3.5 ResetAccumulators  The ResetAccumulators service is sent to the service provider to request that the set ofaccumulators defined in Section 11.5 be reset.3.5.1 Table 13 defines the parameters for the ResetAccumulators service.Table 13 Table 13 ResetAccumulators ServiceParameter Req/Ind Rsp/Conf DescriptionObjSpec C - The object specifier, used to specify the owner of the target object. When omitted,the receiver of the message is intended.RequestStatus - M Information concerning the success or failure of the request. 4 ARAMS Behavioral RequirementsThis section specifies the behavior required forARAMS compliance.13.8 ARAMS State Transitions  ARAMS compliancerequires that the equipment be capable of Transitions 1through 11 in Table 1, with the exception of Transition9. Transitions 12 and higher are optional.4.1.1 Transition 9 is required only of equipment thatputs itself in a preventive maintenance mode based onone or more internally monitored parameters, such as acycle counter. Transition 9 specifies that such atransition takes place from STANDBY toSCHEDULED DOWNTIME only. For equipmentwithout this feature, Transition 9 never occurs.4.1.2 The equipment is required to provide thecapability to report to the host each time a statetransition occurs and to include data related to thattransition in these reports. Transition data included inthese reports allows the factory to calculate the amountsof time spent in the different states.4.1.3 At all transitions except Transition 10, when amanufacturing state is specified, and Transition 11, thecurrent value of ARAMSState is stored inPrevARAMSState and the ARAMS Substate Codespecified is then stored in ARAMSState. A userselection of a specific manufacturing state is discussedin Section 16.5 below.4.1.4 For all equipment-initiated transitions, except asspecified in Sections 16.5 and 16.6, the equipment shall use an ARAMS Substate Code representing the defaultfor that state and shall not select a substate.4.1.5 DowntimeAlarm and DowntimeAlarmText areset only for equipment-initiated transitions toSCHEDULED DOWNTIME and UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME. For all other transitions, these variablesare cleared.4.1.6 If the equipment supports ARAMS accumulators(Section 11.5), then the time spent in the previous stateis calculated and the appropriate accumulator is updatedat this time.13.9 Powerup Entry  The ARAMS State Modelbecomes active during or after initialization following apowerup or reset when Transition 1 occurs. The stateentered at Transition 1 (the default entry state) dependsupon the ARAMS state that was last active before thepowerdown or reset occurred. This is determined by theARAMS Substate Code stored in ARAMSState(Section 11.2.4). If this value is not a valid ARAMSSubstate Code as defined in Section 9.4, then thedefault entry state is NON-SCHEDULED TIME.4.1.7 At Transition 1, if the value in Powerdown-Timedoes not represent a valid date and time, it shall be setto a string of all zeroes. The value stored inPowerdownTime is then stored in LastPowerdown topreserve the estimate of the timestamp of the lastpowerdown or reset. PowerdownTime is next set to thecurrent date and time, and periodic updating of Class 5variables is enabled.

&lt;!-- Page 48 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200329 4.1.8 Normal communications to both operator andhost are unavailable from powerdown to a point withinor following system initialization. It is recommendedthat initializations affecting communications with thehost precede initialization of the ARAMS State Model,to allow an event report to be sent to the host onTransition 1. It is highly desirable to the host to receivean event report for Transition 1. However, it is notrequired for ARAMS compliance.4.1.9 Transition 11 never generates an event report.13.10 Powerup and Powerdown States  TheARAMS state entered at Transition 1 is the default orpowerup entry state for the ARAMS State Model. Thepowerdown state is the state that was active atTransition 11 and is determined by the value stored inARAMSState at the time of Transition 1.4.1.10 If the value in ARAMSState indicates any non-manufacturing state (ENGINEERING, SCHEDULEDDOWNTIME, UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME, orNON-SCHEDULED TIME), it is regarded by thefactory as continuing in that state both during the time itis powered off and at Transition 1. The powerup entrystate is the same as the powerdown state.4.1.10.1 If the equipment is in PRODUCTIVE orSTANDBY and is powered off, it is regarded by thefactory as in UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME from thetime of the powerdown, through any subsequentpowerup, and until it is specifically put into a differentstate by the user. The ARAMS powerup entry stateeither is UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME or isdetermined by an optional variable PowerupState(Section 11.4.2) to be either UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME or STANDBY.4.1.10.2 If the ARAMS state prior to powerdowncannot be determined (e.g., if it has never been set or isinvalid), the state entered after powerup is NON-SCHEDULED TIME.4.1.10.3 Time-in-state calculations for the powerdownstate assume that any transition to a new state occurs atthe time of powerdown, re-boot, or reset.13.10.1 PowerupState  PowerupState, wheresupported, shall be configurable by the user to specifyeither UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME or STANDBYas the powerup entry state after a powerdown hasoccurred from PRODUCTIVE or STANDBY. Theimpact of loss of power has different effects ondifferent types of equipment. An entry state ofSTANDBY allows those types of equipment that do nothave safety or setup concerns to be powered off and onand returned to manufacturing. PowerupState contains atext character of either 2 (STANDBY) or 5(UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME) and has an initial default value of 5. If the value in PowerupState isneither 2 nor 5, then it shall be set to 5.13.11 User-Initiated State Change Requests  Theuser may request an ARAMS state change at any time.The host requests a state change through the ARAMSmessage ARAMSStateChange (Section 15.5),specifying an ARAMS Substate Code or the specialmanufacturing code 0000. The operator uses thehuman interface to request a state change, and this shallresult in the specification of a valid ARAMS SubstateCode (Section 9.4) or of the manufacturing code.4.1.11 The equipment shall deny the request if thespecified code is not valid or if the user specifies a codefor manufacturing when any exception condition existsthat would prevent the equipment from performing itsintended function.\* Otherwise, Transition 10 occurs,regardless of whether the new ARAMS Substate Codeis the same or different from the value in ARAMSStaterepresenting the current state.\* NOTE: See SEMI E10 definitions.4.1.12 If the user specifies a manufacturing state, andthe equipment accepts the state change request, thenTransition 10 occurs and is immediately followed byTransition 2. Transition 2 always occurs in conjunctionwith Transition 10 and does not generate a reportseparately from Transition 10. It is regarded as anextension of Transition 10 where the equipmentdetermines the specific state/substate based on itsinternal status at the time.4.1.13 At Transition 2, the equipment determines thenew state as either PRODUCTIVE or STANDBY,based on its internal condition at the time. It isprohibited from transitioning to PRODUCTIVE unlessits productive criteria have been met and it is busyperforming its intended function. The current value ofARAMSState is moved to PrevARAMSState, and theARAMS Substate Code for the new state is placed inARAMSState. The event report associated withTransition 10 shall be generated after the equipment hasdetermined the new state at Transition 2 and updatedthe appropriate variables.4.1.14 The user may optionally specify a symptomidentifier and text, which are saved in the variablesSymptomID and SymptomText (Section 11.2). If notprovided, SymptomID is set to zero and SymptomTextis set to a zero-length text string. The equipment doesnot otherwise set these values.4.1.15 The user also may optionally enter commentsthat are stored in DowntimeData when selecting atransition to UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME from amanufacturing state. Otherwise, DowntimeData is setto a zero-length text string.

&lt;!-- Page 49 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 2003 30 13.12 Production and Standby Substates  Transitions2, 3, and 4 are made automatically by the equipment.User requests to change to PRODUCTIVE orSTANDBY are accepted as methods of setting thecurrent substate of PRODUCTIVE or STANDBY.However, within the MANUFACTURING superstate,the equipment is responsible for determining when itsproduction criteria are satisfied.4.1.16 Unless the equipment has information asspecified in this section concerning the appropriatesubstate of PRODUCTIVE or STANDBY, then theequipment shall select the appropriate default ARAMSSubstate Code (1000 or 2000, defined in Section9.2).4.1.17 To provide substate refinements important tothe user, the equipment shall remember the lastARAMS Substate Code specified by the user for thePRODUCTIVE state at Transition 10 and use this as adefault PRODUCTIVE substate value PrdState (Section11.2) until a new value is specified. This value shall beused for the new (current) ARAMS state/substateinformation in the variable ARAMSState whenever theequipment transitions to PRODUCTIVE.4.1.18 The equipment normally uses the default codefor all transitions to STANDBY (2000). However,when the user specifies an ARAMS Substate Code forSTANDBY with a substate, this value is to be used atthe next following transition to STANDBY atTransition 2 (if the equipment then transitions toSTANDBY) or at the subsequent occurrence ofTransition 4 (if the equipment transitioned toPRODUCTIVE at Transition 2).4.1.19 This value is discarded (or reset to 2000)after a single use or upon any other transition thatintervenes between the Transition 10 where it isspecified and the time it is applied. This includesintervening occurrences of a new Transition 10 as wellas of Transitions 11, 1, and others.4.1.20 It is not important that the equipment providethe user access to this value except when it is stored inARAMSState.13.13 Equipment-Selected Substates  Equipmentmay provide an optional capability to select substates ofPRODUCTIVE and STANDBY. In this case, theequipment shall provide a user-configurable variableSubstateSelect that enables and disables this capability(Section 11.4.7).4.1.21 Substate selection by the equipment is subjectto the requirements specified in Section 16.5. If the userhas selected a substate of PRODUCTIVE orSTANDBY, the equipment is restricted to that substate or extensions of that substate. Note that a user-selectedsubstate of STANDBY is applied at most once.4.1.22 The capability of selecting substates includesthe ability to select a new substate of the current state.Transistions 12 and 13 shall be used for this purpose.4.1.23 When transitioning to STANDBY, normally atthe completion of a process cycle, multiple standbyconditions may exist. For example, the equipment mayneed both material and instructions from the host. Ingeneral, a substate code of 2200 (SBY/No product)shall take precedence over 2100 (SBY/No operator) and2500 (SBY/No host).4.1.24 If the standby condition represented by thecurrently selected substate clears, then the equipmentshall either select a new substate of STANDBY(Transition 12) or transition from STANDBY(Transition 3).4.1.25 Additional rules for determining substates maybe specific to a type of equipment and may be specifiedby standards defining the capabilities for that type ofequipment.4.1.26 The equipment supplier shall document theprioritization of standby conditions used by theequipment and of the basis for selecting substates ofPRODUCTIVE.13.14 Equipment-Detected Exceptions  Theequipment may detect exceptions in any ARAMS state.However, only those exceptions that occur during anuptime state are of interest to the host.4.1.27 Transitions 5 and 7 indicate the equipmentdetects a fault condition and transitions toUNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME from STANDBY andPRODUCTIVE respectively. Transitions 6 and 8 areprovided to allow the equipment to return to its priorstate and are discussed in the following section.4.1.28 When the equipment detects an exceptioncondition during PRODUCTIVE or STANDBY, so thatit is unable to perform its intended function, it shallimmediately transition to UNSCHEDULED DOWN-TIME. The identifier of the associated alarm is storedin DowntimeAlarm, and any description text associatedwith that alarm is stored in DowntimeAlarmText. Theequipment supplier may provide additional descriptivetext that would be useful in diagnostics or analysis inDowntimeData. In the case of the failure of acomponent, attributes of that component (e.g., serialnumber, installation date, lifetime cycles) is desirable.4.1.29 If the equipment detects an exception conditionin non-uptime states, it shall not initiate a state change.Exceptions occur for many reasons in non-manufacturing states. For example, the equipment may

&lt;!-- Page 50 --&gt;

SEMI E58-0703 © SEMI 1997, 200331 be improperly or incompletely installed, or it may bedeliberately pushed past its limits.4.1.30 Fault Detection in ENGINEERING  Theequipment may also provide optional capability oftransitioning to UNSCHEDULED DOWNTIME fromENGINEERING (Transition 12) when it detects anexception. Alarm-related variables in this case arehandled in the same way as described above.4.1.31 The user shall be able to enable and disable thiscapability with the user-configurable variableEngInterrupt (Section 11.4.1).13.15 Equipment-Initiated Recovery  Equipment-initiated transitions 6, 8, and 13 from UNSCHEDULEDDOWNTIME are provided to allow equipment torecover from an equipment-detected fault when theoperator intervenes, corrects the fault, and indicates theprocess can be recovered. For Transition 6 to occur, theequipment shall be able to resume processing withoutdegradation of the process or the material. Theequipment is responsible for ensuring the safety ofpersons, material, and for the equipment itself.4.1.32 Transition 13 is required if Transition 12 issupported and is prohibited otherwise.13.15.1 Automatic Recovery  Equipment may alsoprovide optional capabilities to recover automaticallyfrom transient faults that clear spontaneously.Automatic recovery at Transitions 6, 8, and 13 shall beseparately enabled and disabled using the user-configurable variables PrdRecovery (Transition 6),SbyRecovery (Transition 8), and EngRecovery(Transition 13). Equipment is otherwise prohibitedfrom using Transitions 6, 8, or 13 to recover withoutexplicit operator approval.4.1.32.1 Automatic recovery to manufacturing andautomatic recovery to ENGINEERING are regarded astwo separate capabilities.4.1.32.2 If EngInterrupt (Section 11.4.1) is not sup-ported or is disabled, then Transition 13 is prohibited. 14 Requirements for ComplianceThis section summarizes the requirements for com-pliance to ARAMS that are defined in this document.14.1 Fundamental Requirements  Compliance toARAMS requires certain capabilities that are definedby other standards.14.1.1 Event Notification  A standard method fornotifying the host that an event of interest has occurredand for providing specific information related to theevent. 14.1.2 Clock Services  Provision of a real-timedate/time clock with methods for setting and readingthe clock from the host.14.1.3 Read-Only Data Access  A standard methodfor the host to obtain the current values of selectedstatus variables and constants specified in Sections 11.2and 11.3.14.1.4 User-Configurable Data Access  A standardmethod for the host to change the values of selectedvariables defined in Sections 11.4 and 11.5.14.1.5 Alarm/Exception Management  A standardmethod for notifying the host of abnormal events and/orconditions.4.1.32.3 In addition to the requirements defined inother standards, the following, defined by ARAMS, arerequired for compliance to ARAMS:14.1.6 ARAMS State Model  Conformance to thebehavior of the ARAMS state model defined in Section8.3.14.1.7 ARAMS State Transition Notification  Usingstandard event report mechanisms (above), the hostshall be notified of all state transitions as described inSections 12 and 16.1.14.1.8 ARAMS Substate Codes  Support for ARAMSSubstate Code formats, used for equipment variablesand service parameters defined in Section 9.14.1.9 ARAMS Status Data  Support for all statusvariables defined in Section 11.2.14.1.10 ARAMS Constant Data  Support for all dataconstants and for the user-configurable variableEqpName defined in Sections 11.3 and 11.4.14.1.11 ARAMS Event Report Data  Support for therequirements of Section 12 requires either the provisionof pre-defined event reports or provision of theDynamic Event Report Configuration capability thatallows the host to dynamically modify the equipmentevent reporting setup and define the content of reportsfor each event.14.1.12 Host State Change Request  Support for theARAMSStateChange service, defined in Sections 15.1,15.2, and 15.5.14.1.13 Estimation of Powerdown Time  Provisionof a method for maintaining PowerdownTime as anestimate of the time of powerdown to an accuracywithin ± one minute.14.1.14 ARAMS Behavioral Requirements  Con-formance to all requirements in Section 16 except thoseidentified as optional or requiring optional variables.