---
title: "SEMI Chapter 073"
description: "SEMI标准文档"
sidebar_label: "SEMI Chapter 073"
sidebar_position: 73
tags: ['SEMI', 'Standard']
custom_props:
  source_type: 'pdf'
  source_file: 'semi-chapter-073.pdf'
  chapter: 73
  page_count: 1
---

import PdfDownloadCard from '@site/src/components/PdfDownloadCard';
import PdfViewer from '@site/src/components/PdfViewer';

<PdfDownloadCard
  pdfLink="/pdfs/semi/073.pdf"
  pdfSize="N/A"
  title="SEMI Chapter 073"
  description="SEMI标准文档，共1页"
/>

---

## 📖 查看PDF原文档（包含完整图表和格式）

<PdfViewer pdfPath="/pdfs/semi/073.pdf" />



&lt;!-- Page 1 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200525 Parameter Name Form Description Where Used PDEAttribute Enumeration Choice of available PDE attributes. The followingvalues are allowed:namegidgroupNamedescriptiontypeexecutablemaxAntecedentscreateDatecreateNodeauthoruserInfosupplierInfochecksum getPDEdirectory(),PDEAttributeItem parameter PDEAttributeItem (PDEAttribute,PDEAttributeValue)Contains the enumerated identifier of a particularPDE attribute and the value of that attribute. PDEDirItem parameter PDEAttributeName Enumeration Choice of available PDE attributes. The followingvalues are allowed:namegidgroupNamedescriptiontypeexecutablecreateDatecreateNodeauthoruserInfo  supplied value matched to anyuserInfo string in the PDEsupplierInfo  supplied value matched to anysupplierInfo string in the PDE PDEFilter parameter PDEAttributeValue Depends on selectedattributeContains the value of the corresponding attribute inthe appropriate format.PDEAttributeItem parameter,PDEFilter parameterPDEDirItem (uid, list ofPDEAttributeItem)Single directory entry returned bygetPDEdirectory(). getPDEdirectory() PDEFilter(PDEAttributeName,operator,PDEAttributeValue) Set of values that define a filter on the set of PDEsfor the getPDEdirectory() service. getPDEdirectory() pdeRef UUID Contains a reference to a PDE. The reference is aUUID value that may represent a gid or a uid.inputMap parameter,outputMap parameterresolution UUID Contains the value of the uid attribute of the PDEto which a PDE reference is resolved.inputMap parameter,outputMap parameterresPDEinfo list of (pdeRef,resPDEstat)Contains a list of all references to PDEs found inthe recipe structure with its corresponding status. resolvePDE()

&lt;!-- Page 2 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 26 Parameter Name Form Description Where UsedresPDEstat Error Status response for the resolvePDE() service. Thefollowing responses are allowed:OK  no problems were encounteredMissingTargetPDE  the targetPDE valuecould not be resolved to any PDE on theEquipmentNode.MissingMapPDE  A needed PDE specified bythe inputMap could not be found on theEquipmentNode.MissingReferencedPDE  A needed PDEcould not be found on the EquipmentNode.If more than one of these conditions applies, thefirst one on this list that applies should be reported. resPDEinfo parameter rtsRspStat Enumeration Status response for the requestToSendPDE()service. The following responses are allowed:OK  Indicates permission to send is granted.NoResources  Indicates there are not sufficientresources available to service this request (forexample, disk space).Other  Unspecified error occurred. requestToSendPDE() sendRspInfolist of (uid,sendRspStat,verifyRspStat) Contains a list of all problems encountered with thesendPDE() request. The uid value indicates whichspecified PDE caused the error.sendPDE() sendRspStat Error Status response for the sendPDE() service. Thefollowing responses are allowed:OK  Indicates PDE was successfully received.NoResources - Indicates there are not sufficientresources available to receive this PDE (forexample, disk space).TargetMismatch  The receiver is notcompatible with the PDEs ExecutionTarget.PDElocked  The PDE already exists and cannotbe replaced at this time.VerificationFailed  The PDE failedverification. See verifyRspStat for failure reason.Other  A problem occurred that is notdescribed by the other enumerated values. sendRspInfo parameter targetPDE UUID The uid attribute value of the PDE to be actedupon. verifyPDE(), resolvePDE() tcid UUIDIdentifier of a TransferContainer. This is a uuidvalue.getPDE(), getPDEheader(),requestToSendPDE(),sendPDE()transferContainer Binary Container format is left as an implementationdetail.getPDE(), getPDEheader(),sendPDE()transferSize Integer Size in bytes of the TransferContainer to betransferred. requestToSendPDE()uid UUID Refers to a PDE by its uid attribute. deletePDE(),getPDEheader(), getPDE(),getRspInfo parameter,delRspInfo parameterPDEDirItem parameter,verifyInfo parameter

&lt;!-- Page 3 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200527 Parameter Name Form Description Where Used verifyDepth Enumeration Verifies the scope of the PDEs to be verified.Single  Only the specified PDE is checked.All  Verify the specified PDE, plus all PDEs itreferences directly or indirectly (e.g. by the PDEsthat are referenced). It requires a check that allrequired PDEparameters are supplied by eachreferencing PDE. This may be used with a MasterPDE to verify all the PDEs it will need for anactivity. Note that if a PDE is referenced bymultiple other PDEs within the scope of averifyPDE() request, it only needs to be verifiedonce during this process. verifyPDE() verifyInfo list of (uid,verifyRspStat)One value set is returned for each PDE that wasreviewed by the verification process. The uididentifies the PDE that was found to have an error.verifyPDE() verifyRspStat Error Status response for the getPDE() service. Thefollowing values are allowed:OK  Indicates successful verification of thePDE.NotFound  The specified PDE was not found.ChecksumFail  The computed checksum ofthe PDEheader or of the PDEbody did not matchthe values in the PDE.SyntaxError  The syntax of the PDE or itsbody was found to be incorrect.ContentError  The content of the PDE did notmatch allowed values or did not follow all contentrules.Other  The verification error did not match theother enumerated categories. verifyInfo Parameter,sendRspStat Parameter verifySuccess BooleanReturns true if no errors were encounteredduring the entire verifyPDE() operation. Otherwisereturns false. verifyType Enumeration Specifies the type of verification to perform. Thefollowing values are allowed:Checksum  computes the checksum of eachapplicable PDE and compares the value to thechecksum value contained in the PDE. It computesthe checksum of any related external PDEbodiesand compares the value to the bodyChecksum valuecontained in the PDE. It also confirms that thePDEbody is matched to the proper PDE.Validity  For each PDE to be verified, ensuresthat the PDE can be executed as part of a recipewithout error. This verification checks the syntaxof the PDE. It includes Checksum verificationplus any other criteria the equipment can provide.Also included is a check that a compatibleExecutionTarget exists on the equipment (if anyExecutionTargets are specified for this PDE).Successful verification does not guarantee thedesired process results. verifyPDE()

&lt;!-- Page 4 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 28 8.4.2.4 Service Message Definitions8.4.2.4.1 This section specifies the allowable/required parameters for each service. Table 17 shows the format ofthe Service Parameters tables used for this purpose.Table 17 Service ParametersParameter Name Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommentName see below see below Descriptive Text 8.4.2.4.2 Each service has an initial message (Request to the sender, Indicator to the receiver, hence Req/Ind).Services that are Request/Response have a return message (Response to the sender, Confirmation to the receiver,hence Rsp/Cnf). The Req/Ind and Rsp/Cnf columns indicate in which message each parameter is to be included.The codes from Table 18 are used in these columns to give further information.Table 18 Req/Ind and Rsp/Cnf Codes Code DescriptionM Mandatory Parameter  Must be given a valid value.C Conditional Parameter  May be defined in some circumstances and undefined in others. Whether a value is givenmay be completely optional or may depend on the value of the other parameters.U User-Defined Parameter.- The parameter is not used.= (For response only) Indicates that the value of this parameter in the response must match that in the primary (ifdefined). 8.4.2.5 getPDEdirectory()8.4.2.5.1 The getPDEdirectory() service is used by the FICS to request a list of PDEs maintained by the serviceprovider. The requestor may supply a filter that will yield a subset of the full list of PDEs. A subset of thePDEheaders attributes can be reported for each returned PDE if desired.8.4.2.5.2 When multiple PDEFilters are specified, these filters are to be ANDed together. That is, each filter isapplied in turn with the reduced list that is output from one becoming the input for the next. Note that noPDEDirItems are returned when no PDEs are found that pass the filters.8.4.2.5.3 The requestor may choose not to include PDEFilters or PDEAttributes in the request. Table 19 getPDEdirectory() Service Parameters Parameter Name Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf Commentlist of PDEFilter C - List of criteria for which PDEs to report. If no PDEFilters supplied, allPDEs will be reportedlist of PDEAttribute C - Lists the attributes to be returned for each PDE reportedlist of PDEDirItem - C List of the PDEs on the service provider that match the provided filter.The values of the specified attributes are included for each.dirRspStat M Denotes any error found. If there is an error, no PDEDirItems arereturned. 8.4.2.6 deletePDE()8.4.2.6.1 The deletePDE() service is used by the FICS to request that specified PDEs be deleted from the serviceprovider. The request includes a list of the PDEs to be deleted. The requestor may wish to first use thegetPDEdirectory() service to obtain a list of the available PDEs.8.4.2.6.2 The delRspInfo lists any errors encountered by the service provider in the completion of the deletePDE()request. All PDEs not referenced by delRspInfo shall be deleted.

&lt;!-- Page 5 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200529 8.4.2.6.3 If the list of uid contains multiple references to the same PDE, the RapNode shall delete the PDE andprovide a successful response.Table 20 deletePDE() Service Parameters Parameter Name Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf Commentlist of uid M - Specifies which PDEs are to be deleted. At least one PDE must be listed.delRspInfo - M Information concerning the result of the service. 8.4.2.6.4 RaP allows deletion of a PDE, even if it is referenced by another PDE. The user should be aware thatdeletion of PDEs may make execution of one or more Master PDEs impossible due to unsatisfied references.8.4.2.7 getPDEheader()8.4.2.7.1 The getPDEheader() service is used to request that the headers of one or more PDEs be returned from theservice provider. Prior to sending a response, the service provider shall be responsible for locating the PDEsrequested, extracting the headers, packaging them in a TransferContainer, and generating a tcid for theTransferContainer.8.4.2.7.2 When reported separately from its PDEbody, a PDEheader serves only a documentation role and is notusable as part of a recipe. The PDEbody is never transferred separately from its PDEheader.8.4.2.7.3 The getRespInfo parameter contains information about any errors that occur. If errors are encountered,then the TransferContainer shall contain all requested PDEheaders for which no error is reported.8.4.2.7.4 If the list of uids contains duplicate entries, the RapNode shall combine these requests and (in the absenceof other problems) return only one copy of the requested PDEheader. The returned getRspStat value for eachoriginal request shall reflect the status of the combined request (that is, OK if one copy is returned). Table 21 getPDEheader() Service ParametersParameter Name Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf Commentlist of uid M - Indicates the identifiers for the PDEs whose headers are to be returned inthe TransferContainer.tcid - C uuid of the TransferContainer that has been returned.transferContainer - C The actual TransferContainer. It is included only if PDEheaders arereturned as a result of the request.getRspInfo - M Report success or failure for each requested PDEheader. 8.4.2.8 getPDE()8.4.2.8.1 The getPDE() service is used to request that one or more PDEs be returned from the service provider.Prior to sending a response, the service provider shall be responsible for locating the PDEs requested, packagingthem in a TransferContainer, and generating a uuid for the TransferContainer.8.4.2.8.2 The getRespInfo parameter contains information about any errors that occur. If errors are encountered,then the TransferContainer shall contain all requested PDEs for which no error is reported.8.4.2.8.3 If the list of uids contains duplicate entries, the RapNode shall combine these requests and (in the absenceof other problems) return only one copy of the requested PDE. The returned getRspStat value for each originalrequest shall reflect the status of the combined request (that is, OK if one copy is returned).Table 22 getPDE() Service ParametersParameter Name Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf Commentlist of uid M - Indicates the identifiers for the PDEs requested to be returned in theTransferContainer.tcid - C uuid of the TransferContainer that has been returned.

&lt;!-- Page 6 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 30 transferContainer - C The actual TransferContainer. It is included only if PDEs are returned as aresult of the request.getRspInfo - M Report success or failure for each requested PDE. 8.4.2.9 requestToSendPDE()8.4.2.9.1 Request for permission to send a TransferContainer containing PDEs to the service provider. The size ofthe proposed TransferContainer is provided so that the service provider can ensure that room is available.8.4.2.9.2 The response to the request is contained in the rtsRspStat. If the returned value is OK, the serviceprovider is indicating that the proposed sendPDE() service should succeed. The requestToSendPDE() service shallnot be required to be send prior to the sendPDE() service. It provides an opportunity to check on a proposed transferbefore that transfer is attempted.8.4.2.9.3 The tcid appears in both the requestToSendPDE() and sendPDE() services. This provides a way for theRaPnode to match a received TransferContainer with the earlier requestToSendPDE() message.Table 23 requestToSendPDE() Service ParametersParameter Name Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf Commenttcid M = Identification of the TransferContainer to be transferred.transferSize M - Size of the TransferContainer in bytes.rtsRspStat - M Response to the request to send. 8.4.2.10 sendPDE()8.4.2.10.1 The sendPDE() service is used to transfer PDEs contained in a TransferContainer to the serviceprovider. Any response other than success (OK) shall be considered an indication that the recipe was notaccepted. If a duplicate PDE is contained in the TransferContainer, the service provider shall store one and discardthe other. This shall not be considered an error. If a PDE in the TransferContainer is already stored on the serviceprovider, the newly received PDE shall overwrite the existing one.8.4.2.10.2 Refer to 8.5.1.3 for requirements related to PDE transfer that apply to EquipmentNodes.Table 24 sendPDE() Service Parameters Parameter Name Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf Commenttcid M - Identifier of the TransferContainer being sent.transferContainer M - The actual TransferContainer being transferred.sendRspInfo - M Report success or failure for each PDE. 8.4.2.11 resolvePDE()8.4.2.11.1 In the recipe hierarchy, each reference of a PDE is either a uid or a gid value. All gids must be resolvedto uids before a recipe can be executed. The EquipmentNode is responsible for the final resolution of any gids notresolved by the client (see 8.5.4). The resolvePDE() service is a request for the EquipmentNode to provide theresolution of all gids in a hierarchy. The EquipmentNode shall resolve the recipe hierarchy exactly the same as if therecipe was to be executed at the time of the resolvePDE() request.8.4.2.11.2 The structure of a recipe can be determined by successively resolving the ReferencedPDEs at a level ofthe hierarchy and then moving downward to the next level. Note that the resolution of a gid at one level will affectthe recipe structure at the next level down. The response to the resolvePDE() service shall comprehend the entirehierarchy below the targetPDE.8.4.2.11.3 While the targetPDE will typically be a Master PDE, there is no requirement for this to be the case. Thisservice can be used to resolve a subset of a complete recipe. The targetPDE shall contain a gid or a uid value.8.4.2.11.4 The inputMap parameter specifies a list of PDE references with the corresponding uid that resolves each.This is a list of client specified resolutions for the gids that may be encountered during the resolution process. If,

&lt;!-- Page 7 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200531 during this process, the EquipmentNode encounters any of the gids listed in the inputMap, it shall use thecorresponding uid from the inputMap in its resolution. This inputMap allows the client to override the normalresolution method by the equipment (see 8.5.1.3).8.4.2.11.5 Some gids listed in the inputMap may not be encountered during the resolution process. This is notconsidered an error and shall be ignored by the EquipmentNode. If a gid from the inputMap appears in the recipehierarchy, but the corresponding uid is not available on the equipment, then the EquipmentNode shall note thesituation as an error (see resPDEstat) and resolve that gid as if it had not appeared in the inputMap.8.4.2.11.6 If ResolvePDEreferences is set to false (see 8.5.1.3), then only the entries in the inputMap are used toresolve the specified PDE. In this case, if a needed gid reference in the recipe structure is not included in theinputMap, it shall be treated the same as if no member of the group were available in the equipment store of PDEs(resPDEstat = MissingReferencedPDE).8.4.2.11.7 The outputMap parameter lists each PDE reference found during the resolution process and theresolution for each. The targetPDE is a PDE reference and shall be included in the outputMap. The targetPDEmay contain a gid value.8.4.2.11.8 If any gid from the recipe structure cannot be resolved to a uid, that gid shall appear in the outputMapwith a zero length string for the corresponding uid. This error shall also be noted in resPDEstat.8.4.2.11.9 All outputMap values that contain no errors shall be acceptable to the equipment as inputMap orPDEmap values.Table 25 resolvePDE() Service ParametersParameter Name Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommenttargetPDE M - The uid or gid of the PDE to be resolved.inputMap M - Client specified resolutions for selected PDE references.outputMap - M Service provider generated list of all PDEs referenced in the recipehierarchy beneath (and including) the targetPDE.resPDEinfo M Report any problems resolving the PDE references. 8.4.2.12 verifyPDE()8.4.2.12.1 The verifyPDE() service is used to check the validity of a specified PDE. It may be used to check asingle PDE or all PDEs that it directly or indirectly references (see verifyDepth). Multiple levels of verification areavailable (see verifyType). The highest level, Validity is dependent on the supplier. The supplier shall documentthe verification steps it takes when verifyType is set to Validity.8.4.2.12.2 The verification process yields only the current status of a PDE. A successful verification does notguarantee that a later verification (or execution) will succeed.8.4.2.12.3 Verification results shall be independent of the status of the equipment and its components. For example,if a processing module is out of service, it shall not change the outcome of the verification process. Equipmentstatus is out of scope of this specification.8.4.2.12.4 When verifyDepth is All, the verifyPDE() service must resolve any PDE references that contain gids.The inputMap parameter allows the client to specify the resolution for some or all of these gids.Table 26 verifyPDE() Service Parameters Parameter Name Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommenttargetPDE M - The uid of the PDE to be verified.inputMap M - Client specified resolutions for selected PDE references.verifyType M - Which type of verification to be done.verifyDepth M - Should referenced PDEs also be verified?verifySuccess - M Overall success or failure.verifyInfo - M Lists results of the verification for each PDE.

&lt;!-- Page 8 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 32 8.4.2.13 TransferContainer8.4.2.13.1 Some of the RaP services reference a TransferContainer. This section defines the TransferContainer.8.4.2.13.2 The TransferContainer bundles one or more PDEs together for transfer. This provides messagingefficiency, logical grouping of PDEs where appropriate, and also creates a potential for data compression of thePDEs.8.4.2.13.3 This specification allows any combination of PDEs to be included in the TransferContainer. They neednot be related. However, the user may choose logical groupings. For instance, the FICS may choose to alwaysdownload Master PDEs and all their related PDEs together.8.4.2.13.4 The details of data compression are left as an implementation decision. For example, if theimplementation chose to represent PDEs as files, it might be logical to implement the TransferContainer in the formof one of the popular file compression formats. TransferContainer PDEPDEPDE PDEbodyPDEbodyPDEbody Manifestuid PDE PDEbody Locationxxx abc.xml abc.dat \\productionyyy mno.xml \\maintenance TransferContainer PDEPDEPDEPDEPDEPDE PDEbodyPDEbodyPDEbodyPDEbodyPDEbodyPDEbody Manifestuid PDE PDEbody Locationxxx abc.xml abc.dat \\productionyyy mno.xml \\maintenance Figure 9TransferContainer Illustration 8.4.2.13.5 Figure 9 provides an illustration of a TransferContainer. It contains a set of PDEs, a set of independentPDEbodies (as needed) and a Manifest that describes the contained PDEs.8.4.2.13.6 The PDEs and the PDEbodies are in document form for transfer. The form of these documents is left asan implementation detail. It is assumed that the document form of the PDE will have some sort of descriptor (forexample, a filename).8.4.2.13.7 The Manifest associates the uid of each PDE contained with the descriptor of the document form of thatPDE and the descriptor of its corresponding PDEbody (if not contained inside the PDE). It is arranged as a series ofentries, each of which contains a single uid, the descriptor of the corresponding PDE, the descriptor of the PDEbody(if applicable), and a Location string. The Location string is not required, but it allows the client to specify wherethe recipe is to be stored (or the equipment to specify where it had been stored). The format of the Location string issupplier specified. Each of these entries in the Manifest allows the receiver of the Transfer Container to quicklyidentify the PDE, find its corresponding PDEbody, and store it appropriately. See Table 27 for more information onManifest entry data.

&lt;!-- Page 9 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200533 Table 27 Manifest Entry Data DefinitionsManifest Data Item Description Formatuid Value of the uid attribute of the PDE contained in theTransferContainer.UUID PDEdescriptor Descriptor of the transfer form of the PDE (for example, a file name). stringPDEbodyDescriptor Descriptor of the transfer form of the PDEbody (for example, a filename).string Location String that indicates the location on the equipment for this recipe. Theformat of this string is left to the implementer.string 8.4.2.13.8 Manifest and the TransferContainer exist only for the purpose of transfer of PDEs. They are not trackedand cannot be accessed using any RaP defined interfaces outside of the context of the transfer operation for whichthey are created.8.5 RaPnode Requirements and Clarifications8.5.1 This section defines and clarifies requirements on the RaPnodes.8.5.2 General RaPnode Requirements And Clarifications8.5.2.1 A RaPnode is a provider of RaP defined services. Clients of RaP services are not required to be RaPnodes.However, in many cases RaPnodes will be clients of other RaPnodes.8.5.2.2 Of the three defined RaPnodes, RaP requires only that an EquipmentNode be present and fully support theRaP services defined for it.8.5.2.2.1 The other two types of RaPnodes may be present and if so, they shall fully support the RaP servicesdefined for them.8.5.2.3 RaPnodes may be combined into a single node. For example, an EditorNode may be combined with anEquipmentNode. This combined node shall support the superset of capabilities defined for these two types of nodes.8.5.2.3.1 The combined RaPnode entity is a single node, therefore there is no requirement that RaP services be usedinternally (for instance, between the internal EditorNode and the internal EquipmentNode capabilities).8.5.2.4 When a PDEbody is opaque to the user (for example, of a binary format), it shall be separated from thePDE/PDEheader construct as described in 8.3.7.8.5.2.4.1 When the PDEbody is contained within the PDE, it shall meet the same format requirements as thePDEheader. In this case, its contents shall be comprehensible by the user.8.5.2.4.2 The format requirements for the PDE are defined in subordinate specifications (sometimes called dotstandards).8.5.2.5 When a TransferContainer is received, the RapNode shall extract the PDEs and store them in such a waythat each PDE can be exactly re-created for later transfer such that the calculated checksum will be correct.8.5.2.6 RaP does not address and is not affected by internal design decisions for the Equipment, PDEeditor, andFICS. It deals only with communication among the Equipment, the PDEeditor, and the FICS.8.5.2.6.1 For example, a PDEeditor might provide a thin client interface in the form of a web browser-basedimplementation. RaP does not restrict such designs. In this case, the PDEeditor should still provide a RapNode thatcomplies with this specification.8.5.2.7 For all checksum values defined by this specification, the MD5 method for computing checksums shall beused. MD5 is defined by the IETF (see the reference in 10).8.5.3 FICSnode Requirements And Clarifications8.5.3.1 The factory environment is not required to provide a FICSnode or the associated services.

&lt;!-- Page 10 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 34 8.5.3.1.1 RaP supports a communications structure where all communications between FICS and the Equipmentand PDEeditor are initiated by the FICS.8.5.3.1.2 Improved efficiencies may be possible when other RaPnodes can utilize FICSnode services. RaPsupports, but does not require this approach.8.5.3.2 If an FICSnode is provided, it shall support all the services defined for it as noted in Table 15.8.5.4 EquipmentNode Requirements And Clarifications8.5.4.1 The Equipment shall provide a single EquipmentNode that supports all the services defined for it as noted inTable 15.8.5.4.2 The EquipmentNode shall be able to perform all RaP related activities without the presence of an FICSnodeor an EditorNode (that is, where all communications with the EquipmentNode are initiated by the client).8.5.4.2.1 The EquipmentNode should provide alternate methods of performing these activities that take advantageof the services provided by FICSnodes and/or EditorNodes.8.5.4.3 The EquipmentNode shall supply values for all PDEparameters of the Master PDE as needed by solicitingthese values as input parameters to the definition of processing jobs.8.5.4.3.1 These input parameters shall have the same name as the corresponding PDEparameters.8.5.4.4 The equipment supplier shall determine what parameters (that is, Module Parameters) to make available forsetting by the PDEs.8.5.4.4.1 The equipment supplier shall document all Module Parameters.8.5.4.4.2 The equipment supplier is encouraged to make available all settings that effect the outcome of processing.8.5.4.4.3 Some settings, such as calibration settings, may not be accessible for setting by the recipe.8.5.4.4.4 All collections of settings or instructions (scripts, support files, etc.) associated with the processingspecification shall be PDEs.8.5.4.4.4.1 If this PDE contains settings not available for editing by the user (for example, calibration values), theequipment/PDEeditor may place appropriate restrictions on the PDE. For example, there might be a PDE (or PDEgroup) that contains calibration values that can be modified only by maintenance personnel and that cannot bedownloaded to the equipment. In some cases, such a calibration PDE is automatically updated just before the runand can be specified only by gid.8.5.4.5 The EquipmentNode shall be able to positively confirm the association of a PDEheader to its externalPDEbody based on matching of information contained in the PDEbody with public information contained in thePDEheader.8.5.4.5.1 The suggested method is to embed the uid inside the PDEbody, but this is not a required solution.8.5.4.5.2 This may also be accomplished by computing the checksum of the PDEbody and comparing it to thebodyChecksum value contained in the PDE. This method requires no change to the PDEbody.8.5.4.6 The EquipmentNode shall verify each PDE upon receipt. This verification shall be the equivalent of thatinitiated by the verifyPDE() service with verifyType = validity and verifyDepth = single.8.5.4.6.1 The EquipmentNode shall reject any PDE that fails this verification process.8.5.4.6.2 The equipment is encouraged to verify any recipes that are placed on the equipment from any source andvia any method (for example, using removable media).8.5.4.6.3 The equipment is encouraged to verify the Master PDE before execution. It is suggested that theverification performed be the equivalent of that initiated by the verifyPDE() service with verifyType = checksum andverifyDepth = all. Note that no results can be reported to the client. Any PDE that fails verification (except for thenon-presence of a referenced PDE) should be removed from the recipe store on the equipment. If possible, a copyshould be kept in a private area for debugging purposes.

&lt;!-- Page 11 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200535 8.5.4.7 The EquipmentNode shall monitor the collection of PDEs available at the equipment. When the collectionchanges (that is, a PDE is added or removed), then the EquipmentNode shall notify the FICS via the event datacollection mechanism available on that equipment. Two events shall be defined to support this capability:PDEadded and PDEremoved. When multiple PDEs are added or deleted at the same time, the change shall bereported with a single event. A data collection parameter, PDElist, shall be provided to contain list of the uids ofthe affected PDEs.8.5.4.7.1 The EquipmentNode shall define a Status Variable that contains the time and date of the last change of therecipe collection on that equipment. This Status Variable shall be accessible by the FICS (for example, using theS1,F3/F4 message defined in SEMI E5).8.5.4.7.2 In the event that a client is disconnected from the EquipmentNode and then reconnected, the client maycheck the above resynchronize by using the getPDEdirectory() service.8.5.4.8 The EquipmentNode shall provide a configurable Boolean setting named ResolvePDEreferences.8.5.4.8.1 This setting shall be configurable by the FICS (for example, using the S2,F15/16 message defined inSEMI E5).8.5.4.8.2 If ResolvePDEreferences is set to True, the EquipmentNode shall resolve any PDE references leftunresolved by the client when executing a recipe or processing the resolvePDE() and verifyPDE() services. Whenthe EquipmentNode is required to resolve any unresolved gids, it shall select the available PDE with the same gidthat has the newest createDate. In the rare instance that more than one PDE has the same (newest) creation date, theequipment shall select one whose uid value comes first alphanumerically.8.5.4.8.3 If ResolvePDEreferences is set to False, the EquipmentNode shall not resolve any PDE reference.8.5.4.9 The EquipmentNode shall provide a predefined input parameter (Variable Parameter) for any job thatexecutes a recipe consisting of PDEs. This Variable Parameter shall be named PDEmap. The equipment clientshall be allowed to supply this value during definition of the job. The format of the PDEmap shall be the same asthe inputMap and outputMap parameters of the resolvePDE() service (see 8.4.2.3).8.5.4.9.1 The PDEmap parameter value shall be used by the equipment to resolve the recipe structure to be used forthe corresponding job. This process is the same as that used for the resolvePDE() service.8.5.4.10 The Equipment shall provide at least one entity capable of creating PDEs (for example, PDEeditor), eithera) on the equipment or b) directly communicating with the equipment8.5.4.10.1 This PDEeditor shall be capable of adding or removing PDEs to the equipments storage area. This maybe done with RaP compliant services or by proprietary means. This requirement may also be met by having thePDEeditor and Equipment share storage space.8.5.5 PDEeditor and EditorNode Requirements And Clarifications8.5.5.1 A PDEeditor is any entity that can create PDEs. An EditorNode is a PDEeditor that supports RaP services.Not all PDEeditors are EditorNodes.8.5.5.2 PDEeditor8.5.5.2.1 This section discusses requirements and clarifications related to the creation of PDEs.8.5.5.2.1.1 A PDEeditor shall be capable of creating and modifying all PDEs needed by the equipment.8.5.5.2.1.2 For any recipe it creates, the PDEeditor shall ensure that any ExecutionTarget definition shall describeonly equipment that are able to execute this PDE.8.5.5.2.1.2.1 The ExecutionTarget attributes of supplier, make, model, and recipeType are used for this purpose.8.5.5.2.1.3 All PDEeditors shall be able to positively confirm the association of a PDEheader to its externalPDEbody based on matching of information contained in the PDEbody with public information contained in thePDEheader.8.5.5.2.1.4 RaP does not restrict recipe creation to EditorNodes nor to only RaPnodes. Recipes can be created byany entity so long as the resulting PDE(s) meet all requirements of this specification.

&lt;!-- Page 12 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 36 8.5.5.2.1.5 During the PDE creation process, the PDEeditor shall provide the user the opportunity to enter userInfotext strings.8.5.5.2.1.6 The PDEeditor shall enforce restrictions on PDEs in the same group. All PDEs in a group shall havethe same set of PDEparameters and they shall have default values on the same subset of these PDEparameters. ThePDEeditor might need access to a member of the group (or key information from a group member) in order tocreate a new member.8.5.5.2.1.7 When the PDEeditor creates a new PDE the following shall be true with regard to PDE groups:8.5.5.2.1.7.1 The PDEeditor that creates the PDE shall determine the gid during PDE creation8.5.5.2.1.7.2 The PDEeditor shall determine (based on user input) whether a PDE will join an existing PDE groupand if so, will enforce the rules for PDEs that are in the same group (see 8.3.2 for more information).8.5.5.2.1.7.3 In all other cases, the gid shall be a new uuid value generated at recipe creation time (distinct from theuid).8.5.5.2.1.8 During the PDE creation process, the PDEeditor shall allow the user the option of settingExecutionTargets or omitting them. ExecutionTargets are intended to ensure that PDEs are executed on the correctequipment. By omitting the ExecutionTargets, the user chooses to bypass this protection by the equipment.8.5.5.2.1.9 The PDEeditor shall allow the user to define the PDEparameters for a PDE and when, duringprocessing, these PDEparameters shall be applied.8.5.5.3 EditorNode8.5.5.3.1 This section discusses requirements and clarifications related to communication with an EditorNode.8.5.5.3.1.1 If EditorNode(s) are provided, each shall support all the services defined for it as noted in Table 15.8.5.5.3.1.2 An EditorNode may choose to communicate with an EquipmentNode using RaP services, but it is notrequired to do so.8.5.5.3.1.2.1 A proprietary interface may be used between PDEeditor and Equipment.8.5.5.3.1.2.2 In either case, the equivalent of all RaP services defined between EditorNode and EquipmentNodeshall be provided.8.5.5.3.1.3 The EditorNode shall be able to perform all RaP related activities without the presence of a FICSnode(that is, where all communications with the FICS are initiated by the FICS).8.5.5.3.1.3.1 The EditorNode should provide alternate methods of performing these activities that take advantage ofthe presence of a FICSnode. For example, at the PDEeditor, human triggered (EditorNode initiated) PDE uploadmay be supported.8.5.5.3.1.4 The EditorNode can create a new PDE group at any time. There are no restrictions. 9 Compliance9.1 Table 27 is intended to be used to document compliance to RaP. One copy of the table shall be completed perRaPnode to be implemented.9.2 The first row of the table declares the type of RaP node to be delivered. The proper box shall be checked.Where two types of RaP node are combined, two boxes shall be checked. The combination of Equipment and FICSis not allowed.9.3 Each (non-header) row in the table references a subsection number from 8 (RaP Requirements). A check inthe checkbox for the RaP Compliant column shall indicate that all requirements in the named subsections for thatrow (and their subsections) are met.9.4 For an equipment to be considered RaP compliant, it shall supply an EquipmentNode that complies with allapplicable RaP requirements and in addition, all EditorNodes that are supplied (if any) shall be RaP compliant.

&lt;!-- Page 13 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200537 Table 28 RaP Compliance TableRaPnode Type: EquipmentNode  EditorNode  FICSnode Section Topic RaP CompliantPDE Content8.3 PDE Class Diagram 8.3.1.1 PDE Class 8.3.2 PDEheader Class 8.3.3 AntecedentData Class 8.3.4 ReferencedPDE Class 8.3.5 ExecutionTarget Class 8.3.6 PDEparameter Class 8.3.7 PDEbody Class 8.3.8 PDEbodyReference Class RaPnode Requirements8.5.2 General RaPnode Requirements 8.5.3 FICSnode Requirements 8.5.4 EquipmentNode Requirements 8.5.5 EditorNode Requirements RaP Services Requirements8.4.2.1 RaPnodes 8.4.2.2 Required Services Per Node Compliance represented in service compliance below.8.4.2.3 Service Message Parameters Compliance noted below for each service using theseparameters.8.4.2.5 getPDEdirectory() 8.4.2.6 deletePDE() 8.4.2.7 getPDEheader() 8.4.2.8 getPDE() 8.4.2.9 requestToSendPDE() 8.4.2.10 sendPDE() 8.4.2.11 resolvePDE() 8.4.2.12 verifyPDE() 8.4.2.13 TransferContainer  10 Related DocumentsGrady Booch, James Rumbaugh, and Ivar Jacobson, The Unified Modeling Language User Guide, ReadingMassachusetts, Addison Wesley: 1999 ISBN 0-201-57168-4.Rivest, Ronald, The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm, IETF RFC: 1992 http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1321.txt.Uniform Resource Name (URN) Syntax, IETF RFC 2141, May 1997 http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2141.txt.

&lt;!-- Page 14 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 38 RELATED INFORMATION 1NOTICE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI E139 and was derived from North AmericanInformation and Control Committee. This related information was approved for publication by full letter ballot onDecember 10, 2004. R1-1 ScenariosR1-1.1 This section contains example scenarios to illustrate how RaP services might be used in practice. Theyrepresent only a subset of possible scenarios. The purpose of including these scenarios is to demonstrate how theRaP services can work together to perform complex tasks.R1-1.1.1 For these scenarios, certain assumptions were needed about how business rules of the FICS and about theoutcome of certain services. These assumptions are stated. The FICS business rules are not intended to representactual factory systems. Instead, they are designed to demonstrate possible combinations of services to perform atask. RaP is intended to work with a wide range of FICS business rules. It is not possible to demonstrate allsituations.R1-1.1.2 Assumptions for all scenarios: (unless otherwise noted in the individual scenario) Equipment, Editor, and FICS nodes are separate nodes that communicate via RaP services (note that Equipmentto Editor communications are not required to use RaP services). The "User" entity represents any source of stimulus, human or electronic. All message receive positive or "success" (response unless otherwise noted). The provided scenarios may not be the only way to accomplish each task. This set is not meant to beexhaustive. Response messages are not shown unless they add information for the reader. R1-2 Scenario  Download PDEsR1-2.1 This scenario is representative of most uses of the sendPDE() service.R1-2.1.1 Assumptions: The PDEs to be downloaded are not currently stored on the equipment. Editor FICSEquipm entUser Create TransportContainer requestToSendPDE() sendPDE() sendPDE()- rsp Verify is automaticw ithverifyType=validity,verifyDepth=single Dow nload Unrelated PDE's Unpack TransportContainer Verify All New PDE's Figure R1-1

&lt;!-- Page 15 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200539 R1-2.1.1.2 Notes: The EquipmentNode is the only one required to validate upon receipt of a TransportContainer. Transfer to FICSor to Editor would be similar, but with the internal Verify step left off. Whether the PDEs are related (e.g. same recipe) or not does not affect this scenario. If all PDEs for a recipe areavailable, a subsequent scenario to validate the full recipe can be executed. R1-3 Scenario  Upload Selected PDEsR1-3.1 This scenario is representative of most uses of the getPDE() service.R1-3.1.1 Assumptions: The equipment stores some PDEs. It may or may not be the System of Record. The user is searching for particular PDEs, based on some unspecified criteria that is beyond what can bereturned in getPDEdirectory(). Once the PDEs are identified, they are to be uploaded to the FICS. PDEeditor FICSEquipm entUser getPDEdirectory() Upload Selected PDE's Select subset of PDE's getPDEheader()Select subset of PDE's getPDE() getPDE() rsp Create TransportContainer Figure R1-2 R1-3.1.1.2 Notes: The getPDEdirectory() service is used to get a complete list of PDEs available. The getPDEheader() service is used to get detailed information about a subset of the PDEs available. The final PDEs uploaded are selected based on the PDEheader information. R1-4 Scenario  Delete Selected PDEsR1-4.1 This is a common usage of the deletePDE() service, but does not assume pre-knowledge of which PDEs areactually on the equipment.R1-4.1.1 Assumptions: The user knows which PDEs should be on the equipment. So he/she needs to see a list of PDEs actually on theequipment and will delete those that are not needed.

&lt;!-- Page 16 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 40 Editor FICSEquipm entUser getPDEdirectory() Display PDE List deletePDE() Delete Selected PDE's Display PDE list Figure R1-3 R1-4.1.1.2 Notes: The getPDEdirectory() service can return basic information about the PDEs, including name, uid, description,createDate, etc. as needed to support the identification of PDEs. Systems that track which recipes are on the equipment may not need to request a directory listing. Suchtracking is possible by monitoring the event reports when the recipe collection changes and checking the statusvariable that notes the last time the recipe collection changed. R1-5 Scenario  Create PDER1-5.1 There are many different ways to approach this scenario. This is just one of those ways. It is intended todemonstrate most of the services that might be used.R1-5.1.1 Assumptions: The equipment is the system of record for PDEs in this example. This PDE is created based on an existing PDE that is stored on the equipment. PDEeditor FICSEquipm entUser getPDEdirectory() Create A New PDE getPDE() sendPDE() Select Base PDE Perform Editing Figure R1-4 R1-5.1.1.2 Notes: If the existing & resulting PDEs were stored by the FICS, the scenario would be similar (replace Equipmentwith FICS).

&lt;!-- Page 17 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200541  Editing a PDE is the same as creating a new PDE, since each new version must be given a new uniqueidentifier. The PDEeditor is responsible for verification of the new PDE. Resolution of verification issues is betweenPDEeditor and User. R1-6 Scenario  Preparation for Processing (1)R1-6.1 This scenario represents a central recipe management system with off-tool system of record.R1-6.1.1 Assumptions: The equipment is configured to never resolve gid references in recipes. The host must/will supply all neededresolutions. The FICS (per its Recipe Management System) knows exactly which PDEs should be used in any processingsituation. All PDEs used the last time that this process was run are on the equipment. The user has updated one PDE that must replace an older version; this PDE and its uses are managed by anFICS-level recipe management system. The automatic verification of the downloaded PDE is assumed to succeed. While RaP recommends that an equipment perform a verification of the full recipe before executing it, thisequipment does not perform that task. A Process Job will soon use this newly verified Master PDE. Editor FICSEquipm entUser sendPDE() Prepare For RunIdentify Needed PDE'sand Create PDEm ap Create TransferContainer verifyPDE() getPDEdirectory() verifyPDE() - rspCheck Status Unpack TransportContainerand Verify New PDE Confirm Presence ofNeeded PDE's Get Missing PDE sendPDE()- rsp Verify PDE's Figure R1-5

&lt;!-- Page 18 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 42 R1-6.1.1.2 Notes: The getPDEdirectory() service is used to determine what PDEs are on the equipment. The FICS accesses the recipe management system to obtain the list of needed PDEs This is compared withthe PDE directory to determine which, if any, are needed. The TransferContainer contains only the PDE not currently on the equipment. The verifyPDE() service refers to the Master PDE for the intended process job and has verifyType = Checksumand verifyDepth = All. A full inputMap is supplied. The PDEmap is used as the inputMap for the verifyPDE() service. In this scenario, the requestToSendPDE() message is omitted. Its use is at the option of the client to ensure aPDE download will not be rejected. R1-7 Scenario  Preparation for Processing (2)R1-7.1 This scenario is intended to represent some aspects of early stage recipe management where recipes arestored on the equipment and central control and tracking is not available.R1-7.1.1 Assumptions: PDEs are created at the equipment, which serves as the system of record. The business practice of the FICS is that the latest version of each PDE available on the equipment shouldalways be used. For that reason, PDEs are referenced by gid and the equipment always resolves these gids. The FICS records which PDEs were last used with each Master PDE. It detects when the current set differsfrom the previous execution of this Master PDE and seeks confirmation from the user that the change isappropriate. All PDEs used the last time that this Master PDE was executed are on the equipment. The user has updated one PDE that must now be used in place of an older version. The equipment follows the RaP recommendation that an equipment perform a verification of the full recipebefore executing. Therefore, such verification is not necessary in this scenario. A Process Job will soon use this newly verified Master PDE. Editor FICSEquipm entUser Request Confirm ation For Use Of New PDE Prepare For Run Com pare With Previous Run getPDEdirectory() resolvePDE() Confirm Use of New PDE Figure R1-6 R1-7.1.1.2 Notes: The Master PDE is specified as the targetPDE in the resolvePDE() message.

&lt;!-- Page 19 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200543  The getPDEdirectory() service is used to get further information about the new PDE found in the outputMap ofthe resolvePDE() service. Alternately, the getPDEheader() service could have been used if more detailedinformation were required.

&lt;!-- Page 20 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 44 RELATED INFORMATION 2NOTICE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI E139 and was derived from the North AmericanInformation and Control Committee. This related information was approved for publication by full letter ballot onDecember 10, 2004. R2-1 Implementation SuggestionsR2-1.1 This related information is included to supplement the specification with some suggestions about the use ofRaP and its capabilities. Its purpose is a) to promote more uniform application of RaP and b) to share some insightsof the creators of RaP that may lead to improved results from its use. R2-2 Combining RaPnodesR2-2.1 8.5.2.3 mentions the possibility of combining RaPnodes. This section will briefly discuss this topic tooutline when and why this might be appropriate.R2-2.1.1 In general, when multiple nodes are combined, efficiency can be gained by: Coding the individual services only once (since most are common to all RaPnodes)6. Sharing the computing platform where the software is run. Eliminating the communication between the two separate RaPnodes by designing them to be a single entity.R2-2.1.1.1 Not all RapNode combinations are practical. In particular, the combination of EquipmentNode withFICSnode is not commercially feasible due to the many different suppliers equipment that must communicate withone FICS. The other two combinations may be useful in the some situations.R2-2.1.1.2 Combining the EquipmentNode and the EditorNode mirrors the traditional equipment on-tool editingcapability. This approach might provide the easiest transition to RaP for some equipment suppliers. It also ensuresthat the equipment will function out of the box without integration. Since multiple PDEeditors are allowed, theoff-tool version could be provided later or as an add-on.R2-2.1.1.3 The combination of FICSnode with EditorNode might represent the integration of an off-tool editor withan off-tool recipe management capability. In the long term, there might be a movement to general PDEeditors thatare compatible with many suppliers equipment recipes. Integrating a recipe management capability with thatgeneral editor would be a logical next step.R2-2.1.1.4 If the implementation for messaging is SECS-II only, then any equipment with an on-tool editor mustcombine the EquipmentNode and EditorNode. This is necessary since multiple SECS-II sessions are not wellsupported.R2-2.1.1.5 When two RaPnodes are combined, they are expected to act as a single entity with a union of thecapabilities of the two types of RaPnodes. The combined RaPnodes are expected to share resources, including therecipe storage area. Messages to the combined RaPnodes will not differentiate which node type is being addressed. R2-3 RaP Support For SEMI E40 and SEMI E30R2-3.1 RaP can be used in conjunction with SEMI E40 Process Job Management or with SEMI E30 GEM. Thissection discusses how to map the key recipe-related parameters from those two standards to the RaP attributes. Inboth cases, the management of the recipes uses RaP services. This section discusses how the recipe is specified forthe processing activity and how the Variable Parameters are communicated.R2-3.2 In SEMI E40, recipe information is specified as part of the job specification in the Stream 16 messages asRCPSPEC (recipe identifier - text) and RCPPARNM (recipe variable name - text). To satisfy RCPSPEC, a RaPimplementation should supply the identifier (uid or gid) of the Master PDE.R2-3.3 The Variable Parameters defined in RaP were intended to correspond directly with the RecipeVariables7defined in SEMI E40. The PDEparameters of the Master PDE should be mapped directly to RecipeVariables. The 6 Note that even if the RaPnodes are not combined, a single body of code could be created, with internal switches to enable the proper servicesfor the particular type of RapNode.

&lt;!-- Page 21 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200545 RaP PDEparameter class includes a name attribute. This name value can be supplied in the Steam 16 messages asthe value of an RCPPARNM parameter.R2-3.4 Support for SEMI E30 works differently. In this case, there is no concept of a process job. Instead, it is atwo step process: 1) the recipe is selected for execution, and then 2) a START command is given to beginexecution. Both of these requests are made using the S2,F49 message (Enhanced Remote Command  see SEMIE5). The Remote Command message accepts parameter values (called CEPVALs). Each CEPVAL has acorresponding identifier called CPNAME.R2-3.5 In the first step, the RCMD (remote command) is RCP-SELECT. The identifier of the recipe is containedin a CEPVAL. The uid (or gid) of the Master PDE is supplied as the CEPVAL to identify the recipe. The supplierdetermines the CPNAME of this parameter.R2-3.6 In the second step, the S2,F49 message requests the START remote command. In this message, theCEPVALs contain parameters that apply to the activity. The equipment may have some pre-defined parameters.The PDEparameter values may also be specified here as CEPVALs. The name of the PDEparameter should bespecified as the CPNAME. R2-4 Factory Assigned Recipe AttributesR2-4.1 Some factory systems track various attributes of specifications within their factory. Recipes are one type ofspecification and often have important attributes associated with them. For example, a recipe may need to undergocertain tests before it is qualified to use in production. Also, there may be some sort of management sign-offprocess. These and other such attributes are used by the factory to help determine what recipe can be run in a givensituation.R2-4.2 The definition of recipe management practices of the factory is beyond the scope of RaP. However, a placehas been provided within the PDEheader for the factory to store (and later retrieve) such information. The userInfoattribute provides a list of text strings that the factory can use for this purpose.R2-4.3 Any attribute that can be represented as a text string can be included. Using common text formattingapproaches (for example, comma separated values), both simple and complex attributes can be stored. For example,one userInfo field might contain a name/value pair something like this: Approved, True.R2-4.4 It is expected that the userInfo will not be used for very large data structures, such as photographic images.An attempt to include data much larger than the original PDE might cause unexpected results.R2-4.5 Since the equipment will not try to interpret these values and undocumented changes to the recipe are notpossible, this provides a secure place to store these values.R2-4.5.1 Some examples of userInfo strings include: Comment  The user can enter a detailed explanation of the need for this PDE, the conditions that led to itscreation, etc. This can help when transfer of duties to a new engineer occurs. Approval Level  is the recipe approved for use?; what use is it approved for? Version  what version number will the host assign to this PDE for tracking purposes? Classification  there are many ways to classify recipe components  the factory area of use, which step in theprocess, which process (or process version), etc. R2-5 Supplier Assigned Recipe AttributesR2-5.1 The equipment supplier may need to provide information about each PDE that is not standardized. ThesupplierInfo attribute is provided to allow the supplier to include this information. The format is the same as foruserInfo  a list of text strings. 7 SEMI E40 also uses the term Recipe Variable Parameters to refer to RecipeVariables.

&lt;!-- Page 22 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 46 R2-5.1.1 Here are some examples of potential uses of supplierInfo: formatVersion  Supplier assigned string that documents the version of the format or language used to createthis PDE. This can help the user determine whether the PDE is compatible with a particular equipment. version  Version of the PDE. This represents the supplier-assigned version value. If equipment-based recipemanagement is used, a versioning scheme may be helpful. The equipment supplier should document itsversioning strategy. R2-6 Parameterization NotesR2-6.1 Parameterization of equipment recipes begins with the setting of Module Parameters according to VariableParameters entered at run time. There are other uses of parameterization that may be very beneficial.Parameterization can also help with complex control situations. This section discusses such opportunities.R2-6.1.1 Selection of ExecutionTarget  The recipe documents which ExecutionTargets are allowed to executeeach PDE. At execution time, it is possible that more than one specified ExecutionTarget will be available (forexample, identical processing modules in a cluster tool). The selection is made by the equipment, in accordancewith any instructions in the recipe. However, there may be times when one of the processing modules is notoperating within specifications for certain products. In such a situation, how can the factory force the equipment toexclusively choose the other process module? One answer would be to provide an input parameter to the recipe forselection of process module for this PDE. The default might be use both with the opportunity to select one or theother exclusively.R2-6.1.2 Process Control For Multiple ExecutionTargets  There are situations where multiple, equivalentprocessing modules are available on the equipment and are all identified as ExecutionTargets. If wafers are sent tothe next available process chamber, it would not be possible to predict which process module a given wafer mightuse. When process control is being applied to this equipment, this can cause complication. Each of the processmodules can have very different control responses. So each would have different control settings for a specificmaterial/job situation. To serve the users needs in this case, it should be possible to define one set ofPDEparameters for each possible ExecutionTarget. These parallel parameter sets would all need to be set. ThePDE would select the proper parameter set based on the choice of process module for a given wafer.R2-6.2 The reverse issue may also exist in this situation of multiple equivalent ExecutionTargets. SomeModuleParameters should take on the same value, no matter which ExecutionTarget is chosen. The implementationshould allow for the specification of a single PDEparameter whose value will be applied correctly for any of thespecified ExecutionTargets.R2-6.2.1 So, the user should have the option to specify different values per ExecutionTarget or a single value to beused for all. R2-7 TraceabilityR2-7.1 Proper traceability of processing should include recording enough information to determine exactly whatwas done in any instance of processing. An important part of this information set is a record of the instructionsprovided to the equipment. This includes the specific PDEs used and the external setting values provided to satisfythe Variable Parameters.R2-7.1.1 It is recommended that the equipment supplier create data collection parameters that allow the user tocollect the following: The identifier of the Master PDE specified for the process job, The PDEmap provided to resolve the recipe structure, A list of all the PDEs actually used during processing, All Variable Parameter values supplied for the process job, and The PDE(s) used for each instance of processing (for example, when a wafer is processed in a process module.o Also include the PDEparameter settings that affected that instance of processing.

&lt;!-- Page 23 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 200547 o The settings for all Module Parameters of this process module. R2-8 Recipe SecurityR2-8.1 The use of the universally unique identifier and checksum provide significant protection againstmisprocessing due to the use of the wrong recipe. However it is not completely secure from intentional tampering.R2-8.2 It is possible for someone to modify an existing PDE without changing the uid. To complete the deception,a new checksum would need to be calculated and included in the PDE. A PDE changed in this way might not bedetected in some factory systems.R2-8.3 There is a way to address this problem and ensure that only the correct recipes are used. This assumes thatthere is a factory level recipe management system where the known-good PDEs are all logged and theirauthorization for use is recorded. This system should log the uid of each PDE, along with its checksum.R2-8.4 Recall that the equipment will check each PDE against its internal checksum value when the PDE istransferred to the equipment and most will check it again before execution. This ensures that each PDE is self-consistent.R2-8.5 Whenever a recipe is to be used for processing, the FICS can perform a getPDEdirectory() service to list thePDEs to be used and their checksums. It can then compare the stored (known-good) checksum for that PDE withthe current checksum value. In this way, the FICS can detect any changes and ensure that the correct PDEs arebeing used. R2-9 PDEeditor/Equipment SynchronizationR2-9.1 RaP defines services in support of an off-tool recipe editor. When the editor is a separate entity, there arisesa potential problem of synchronization. Any modifications to the equipment software may require a correspondingchange to the PDEeditor. If these updates are not done in a coordinated way, then significant problem coulddevelop. RaP does not offer a solution to this problem. It provides only this warning of the potential problem. It isthe responsibility of the users to put a process in place to ensure that their suppliers maintain synchronization of theequipment and editor software. R2-10 Human Involvement In Recipe SelectionR2-10.1 RaP is designed to work well in an automated factory system. In some situations, however, humans mustbe involved in the process. Unfortunately, the UUID format is not user-friendly.R2-10.1.1 When a system must rely on a human to select a recipe, there must be enough human-recognizableinformation to ensure the correct choice is made. This is a recommendation of how to support such a humanselection of PDEs. uid/gid  It is not recommended that the uid and gid be displayed to the user. They are long strings with nohuman-parsable information. name  Name should be the most useful information to the user. However, it depends on the users defining ameaningful naming convention for PDEs. This is an important consideration. groupName  This can give the user a good idea of the intended use of this PDE. Again, it depends on ameaningful naming convention from the users. type  This allows the user to distinguish, for example, between a sequence recipe and a module recipe orbetween etch and clean recipes. The use of type may vary, but it will typically help make importantdistinctions. createDate  Allows a user to get a sense of the chronology. description  If the users enter appropriate information, this can be very helpful. However, it can also be verylong. This is good for an extended display about a PDE. author  Who created a PDE is a very strong clue about what it is to be used for. userInfo  More good information for an extended display.

&lt;!-- Page 24 --&gt;

SEMI E139-0705 © SEMI 2005 48  supplierInfo  Again, good information for an extended display.R2-10.2 In general, a display of the name, groupName, type and createDate should be adequate to support a recipeselection in most cases. An extended display should be available when more help is needed. R2-11 Optimizing getPDEdirectory() ServiceR2-11.1 A poor implementation of the getPDEdirectory() service may be inefficient. It is clear that somegetPDEdirectory() requests may require the RaPnode to return information from the header of all the recipes storedat this node. Reading bits of information from hundreds of potentially large files can be time consuming. It issuggested that steps be taken to optimize this implementation. For instance, if key parts of the header from eachPDE on the RaPnode are stored separately (for example, in a database), then retrieval of this information can bevery fast. However, this cataloging of all recipes requires careful management of the PDEs and some overhead tomaintain. The software designer should consider all these factors when implementing this service. R2-12 PDEeditor IdentificationR2-12.1 Not all PDEeditors are EditorNodes. There may be standalone editors that create PDEs that are moved tothe equipment (or to the Recipe Management System) by other means  email, floppy disk, or other transportmediums. Some recipes may originate from the supplier. It is important that all PDEeditors embed meaningfulnodeIDs that identify the source clearly to the eventual user of the recipe. It is recommended that all nodeIDscontain URN strings as defined in Internet standards. NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standards set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturer's instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature, respecting any materials or equipment mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change withoutnotice.By publication of this standard, Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any items mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 25 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 20051 SEMI E139.1-0705XML SCHEMA FOR THE RaP PDE This standard was technically approved by the global Information & Control Committee. This edition wasapproved for publication by the global Audits and Reviews Subcommittee on April 7, 2005. It was availableat www.semi.org in June 2005 and on CD-ROM in July 2005. Table of Contents 1 Purpose .......................................................................................................................................................................22 Scope ..........................................................................................................................................................................23 Limitations..................................................................................................................................................................24 Referenced Standards and Documents .......................................................................................................................25 Terminology ...............................................................................................................................................................26 Conventions................................................................................................................................................................37 PDE Schema Definition..............................................................................................................................................68 Manifest Schema Definition .....................................................................................................................................139 Related Documents...................................................................................................................................................14 List of Figures Figure 1 XML Example Diagram..................................................................................................................................5Figure 2 XML for Sample .............................................................................................................................................6Figure 3 PDE .................................................................................................................................................................7Figure 4 PDEheader.......................................................................................................................................................8Figure 5 ExecutionTarget ..............................................................................................................................................9Figure 6 ReferencedPDE ...............................................................................................................................................9Figure 7 AntecedentData .............................................................................................................................................10Figure 8 PDEparameter ...............................................................................................................................................11Figure 9 PDEbody .......................................................................................................................................................11Figure 10 PDEbodyReference .....................................................................................................................................11Figure 11 Manifest.......................................................................................................................................................14 List of Tables Table 1 Example Translation Table...............................................................................................................................3Table 2 Altova XMLSPY® Schema Diagram Symbols................................................................................................4Table 3 Translation Table For PDE Class .....................................................................................................................7Table 4 Translation Table For PDEheader Class...........................................................................................................7Table 5 Translation Table For ExecutionTarget............................................................................................................9Table 6 Translation Table For ReferencedPDE.............................................................................................................9Table 7 Translation Table For AntecedentData...........................................................................................................10Table 8 Translation Table For PDEparameter .............................................................................................................10Table 9 Translation Table For PDEbody.....................................................................................................................11Table 10 Translation Table For PDEbodyReference...................................................................................................11Table 11 simpleTypes In The PDE Schema ................................................................................................................12Table 12 complexTypes In The PDE Schema .............................................................................................................12Table 13 Translation Table For Manifest Class...........................................................................................................13Table 14 simpleTypes In The PDE Schema ................................................................................................................14

&lt;!-- Page 26 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 2005 2 1 Purpose1.1 The purpose of this document is to define an XML-based format for transferring recipe components. Thisincludes an XML schema that corresponds to the UML model for the RaP Process Definition Element (PDE) asdefined by SEMI E139. In addition, an XML schema is defined for the Manifest that must be included in theTransferContainer with the PDEs during transfer. 2 Scope2.1 The scope of this document is the faithful representation of the PDE and Manifest definition from SEMI E139in an XML schema. It will not add new domain information or concepts to the model. The only additions made arethose needed to render a useful XML schema. 3 LimitationsNOTICE: This standard does not purport to address safety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine theapplicability of regulatory or other limitations prior to use. 4 Referenced Standards and Documents4.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E121  Guide for Style & Usage of XML for Semiconductor Manufacturing Applications4.2 OMG StandardsUnified Modeling Language (UML) Specification, Version 1.4, OMG Specification 01-09-67,(http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/modeling\_spec\_catalog.htm).4.3 W3C StandardsCanonical XML Version 1.0  W3C, 15 March 2001 (http://www.w3.org/TR/xml-c14n).Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second Edition)  W3C, 6 October 2000(http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/REC-xml-20001006/).Namespaces in XML  W3C, 14 January 1999 (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-xml-names-19990114/).XML Schema Part 0: Primer  W3C, 2 May 2001 (http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-0/).XML Schema Part 1: Structures  W3C, 2 May 2001 (http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-1/).XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes  W3C, 2 May 2001 (http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2/).XML Path Language (Xpath)  W3C, 16 November 1999 (http://www.w3.org/TR/xpath/). 5 Terminology5.1 Abbreviations and Acronyms5.1.1 UML  Unified Modeling Language5.1.2 W3C  World Wide Web Consortium5.1.3 XML  eXtensible Markup Language5.2 Definitions And Acronyms5.2.1 UML (Unified Modeling Language)  A notation for representing object-oriented designs and views createdby Booch, Rumbaugh, and Jacobson in order to merge their three popular notations plus aspects of other existingnotations into a single object-oriented notation intended to be usable by all.5.2.2 XML (eXtensible Markup Language)  A markup language used for representing data rich with context andcontent in documents and in communications. XML is an extension of SGML, a document-oriented markuplanguage. It was created by W3C for use on the Internet. XML can represent object-oriented structures.

&lt;!-- Page 27 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 20053 6 Conventions6.1 This section discusses the conventions used in this specification for translating UML to XML and fordocumenting the XML. These conventions are heavily influenced by the SEMI E121 Guide for Style & Usage ofXML for Semiconductor Manufacturing Applications.6.2 The reader is expected to have a working knowledge of the UML, XML, and Schema specifications (See 4.2and 4.3). This document does not provide tutorial information on these subjects.6.3 Translating UML to XML6.3.1 This document follows the guidelines for XML as outlined in SEMI E121 Guide For Style & Usage of XMLfor Semiconductor Manufacturing Applications.6.3.2 Some of the key guidelines in this specification are summarized here: Attributes of a class are generally represented as elements such that they can be easily extended by otherapplications. Inheritance is modeled as element extension. Compositions always turn into contained elements (or contained collections if multiples are allowed). Associations and Aggregations are modeled as contained elements or arrays wherever possible to simplify theinstance model.6.3.3 The translation of a UML class to XML is documented using a table format illustrated by Table 1. Note thatthe PDE model in SEMI E139 does not include services, so only attribute and association representations areaddressed here. Any superclass information is addressed in the text and the diagrams.6.4 Translation Table Column Header Description Attribute or Role Name  If an attribute, the name of the attribute is placed here. If an association (includingaggregation or composition), the role name from the UML diagram is placed here. Compositions are often notassigned role names. In that case none is placed here. UML Type  If an attribute, the data type of the UML attribute is placed here. If an association, the type ofassociation is placed here. The possible types are Composition, Aggregation, or the basic Association.UML defines these three types of association. XML Element or Attribute  Lists the type of XML construct used to represent the UML attribute orassociation. XML Name/Type  Provides the name and data type of the resulting XML construct. The type may be abuilt-in type (for example, xs:string), or a named type defined within the XML schema.Table 1 Example Translation TableAttribute or Role Name UML Type XML Element or Attribute XML Name/Typefriend association element Friend: HumanReferenceArrayemployees aggregation element Employees: HumanArrayfamily composition element Family: HumanArrayname string element Name: xs:string 6.5 Documenting The XML With Diagrams6.5.1 This document provides graphical representations of the included XML. Although no standard graphicalnotation for XML could be found, various XML tools have their own notation. This document will use the notationprovided by XMLSPY® from Altova Corporation1. There is no requirement for use of XMLSPY® in order to 1 All images/graphics were created using Altovas XMLSPY® . Copyright 2003 Altova GmbH and reprinted with permission ofAltova.

&lt;!-- Page 28 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 2005 4 comply with this specification. Figure 1 shows a sample XML diagram that will be used to provide a basis forexplanation of the XML graphical notation used in the rest of the document.6.5.2 In the diagram, rectangular boxes represent XML elements. Ownership or containment is read from right toleft in the diagrams. In the sample diagram, ParentType contains Child1, Child2, Child 3, and Child 4. In turn,Child2 contains Child2a, Child2b, and Child2c. The additional symbols (8-sided boxes) represent sequences orchoices. See Table 2 for an explanation of these symbols.6.5.3 Please note that element, sequence, all, and choice are XML terms (see the W3C standardsreferenced in 4.3).Table 2 Altova XMLSPY® Schema Diagram SymbolsDenotes a required ordered sequence of the right hand elements with a cardinality of onefor each element. (sequence)Denotes an optional ordered sequence of the right hand elements with a cardinality of onefor each element. (sequence)Denotes a required, but unordered, sequence of the right hand elements with a cardinalityof one for each element. (all)Denotes a required choice of the right hand elements. Exactly one or two of the righthand elements must be present. (choice) Name Denotes an element. Optional element if outline is dashed line. NameName Denotes an element that contains parsed character data. 6.5.4 A graphic using a solid line is a required element; using a dashed line represents an optional element.Numbers or ranges in the lower right hand corner represent cardinality. The default cardinality is one.6.5.5 To simplify a diagram or help focus on a particular aspect, detail may be hidden. The 8-sided symbols have asmall square on the right end. If a minus sign - is in the box, then all detail is shown. If the box contains a plussign +, then all detail to the right of that symbol is hidden. The example has no hidden detail.

&lt;!-- Page 29 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 20055 Figure 1XML Example Diagram 6.5.6 The yellow (or gray if printed in monochrome) boxes indicate the use of other defined types. So, Child4 is oftype Child4Type. Child4Type defines Child4a and Child4b. This detail may be hidden in the diagram. Objectoriented inheritance is typically represented in XML as type extension. In Figure 1, ParentType extendsChild1and2Type by adding a sequence that includes Child3 and Child4.6.5.6.1 Reading Figure 1 would yield the following additional information: Child1and2Type is an ordered sequence of two items: Child2 and Child1. Child1 contains an optional ordered sequence of Child1a, one or more Child1b, and (optionally) Child1c. Child2 contains a choice of one or two of the following: Child2a, Child2b, and Child2c. Child3 contains an unordered sequence of Child3a and Child3b.6.5.7 XML Schema Sample6.5.7.1 The sample XML for the example shown in Figure 1, is presented below. Refer to the XML documentationreferenced in 4.3 for a complete description of the syntax and semantics of XML schemas.

&lt;!-- Page 30 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 2005 6 Figure 2XML for Sample 7 PDE Schema Definition7.1 PDE Class Mapping to XML7.1.1 This section describes how the PDE classes from SEMI E139 are mapped to XML. The descriptions in thissection are provided to support and explain the XML schema document for the PDE (attached, see 7.2.2). Thissection contains no requirements. Specific requirements are included in 7.2.7.1.2 Abstract Classes7.1.2.1 No classes in the PDE model for RaP are abstract.

&lt;!-- Page 31 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 20057 7.1.3 Concrete Classes7.1.3.1 This section contains the XML mappings for the concrete classes defined for the PDE in SEMI E139. Theseare the classes that can be represented in an XML instance document based on the attached XML schema for thePDE.7.1.4 PDE7.1.4.1 The PDE class is mapped to the XML complexType also named PDE. Table 3 shows how the associationsand attributes of the PDE class are mapped into XML. Figure 3 illustrates the resulting XML structure.7.1.4.2 See 7.2.1 for instructions on the calculation of the value of the checksum element.Table 3 Translation Table For PDE Class Attribute or Role Name UML Type XML Element or Attribute(or Reference) XML Name/Type checksum Checksum element checksum (simpleType Checksum)PDEheader aggregation element PDEheader (complexType)(xor) constraint choice (of PDEbody orPDEbodyReference) nonePDEbody aggregation element PDEbody (complexType)PDEbodyReference aggregation element PDEbodyReference (complexType) Figure 3PDE 7.1.4.3 PDEheader7.1.4.3.1 The PDEheader class is mapped to the XML complexType also named PDEheader. Table 4 shows howthe associations and attributes of the PDEheader class are mapped into XML. Figure 4 illustrates the resulting XMLstructure.Table 4 Translation Table For PDEheader ClassAttribute or RoleName UML Type XML Element or Attribute(or Reference) XML Name/Type uid UUID element uid (simpleType UUID)name String element name (simpleType xs:string)gid UUID element gid (simpleType UUID)groupName String element groupName (simpleType xs:string)description String element description (simpleType xs:string)type String element \[0..1\] type (simpleType xs:string)executable Boolean element executable (simpleType xs:boolean)maxAntecedents Integer element maxAntecedents (simpleType xs:int)createDate Time element createDate (simpleType xs:dateTime)createNode String element createNode (simpleType xs:string)author String element author (simpleType xs:string)

&lt;!-- Page 32 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 2005 8 Attribute or RoleName UML Type XML Element or Attribute(or Reference) XML Name/Type userInfo list of String element \[0..1\] userInfo (complexType ListOfStrings)supplierInfo list of String element \[0..1\] supplierInfo (complexType ListOfStrings)ExecutionTarget aggregation element \[0..\] ExecutionTarget (complexType)ReferencedPDE aggregation element \[0..\] ReferencedPDE (complexType)AntecedentData aggregation element \[0..\] AntecedentData (complexType)PDEparameter aggregation element \[0..\] PDEparameter (complexType) Figure 4PDEheader

&lt;!-- Page 33 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 20059 7.1.4.4 ExecutionTarget7.1.4.4.1 The ExecutionTarget class is mapped to the XML complexType also named ExecutionTarget. Table 5shows how the associations and attributes of the ExecutionTarget class are mapped into XML. Figure 5 illustratesthe resulting XML structure.Table 5 Translation Table For ExecutionTargetAttribute or RoleName UML Type XML Element or Attribute(or Reference) XML Name/Type identifier String element \[0..1\] identifier (simpleType xs:string)supplier String element supplier (simpleType xs:string)make String element make (simpleType xs:string)model String element model (simpleType xs:string)recipeTypes list of String element \[0..1\] recipeTypes (complexType ListOfStrings) Figure 5ExecutionTarget 7.1.4.5 ReferencedPDE7.1.4.5.1 The ReferencedPDE class is mapped to the XML complexType also named ReferencedPDE. Table 6shows how the associations and attributes of the ReferencedPDE class are mapped into XML. Figure 6 illustratesthe resulting XML structure.Table 6 Translation Table For ReferencedPDE Attribute or Role Name UML Type XML Element or Attribute(or Reference) XML Name/Type id UUID element id (simpleType UUID) Figure 6ReferencedPDE 7.1.4.6 AntecedentData7.1.4.6.1 The AntecedentData class is mapped to the XML complexType also named AntecedentData. Table 7shows how the associations and attributes of the ReferencedPDE class are mapped into XML. Figure 7 illustratesthe resulting XML structure.

&lt;!-- Page 34 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 2005 10 Table 7 Translation Table For AntecedentDataAttribute or RoleName UML Type XML Element or Attribute(or Reference) XML Name/Type uid UUID element uid (simpleType UUID)name String element name (simpleType xs:string)gid UUID element gid (simpleType UUID)groupName String element groupName (simpleType xs:string)description String element description (simpleType xs:string)author String element author (simpleType xs:string)createDate Time element createDate (simpleType xs:dateTime)createNode String element createNode (simpleType xs:string)AntecedentData aggregation element \[0..\] AntecedentData (complexType) Figure 7AntecedentData7.1.4.7 PDEparameter7.1.4.7.1 The PDEparameter class is mapped to the XML complexType also named PDEparameter. Table 8 showshow the attributes of PDEparameter are mapped to XML. The resulting XML structure is illustrated in Figure 8.Table 8 Translation Table For PDEparameter Attribute or Role Name UML Type XML Element or Attribute(or Reference) XML Name/Type name String element name (simpleType xs:string)description String element description (simpleType xs:string)units String element units (simpleType xs:string)relatedParameters list of String element \[0..1\] relatedParameters (complexType ListOfStrings)defaultValue Any element \[0..1\] defaultValue (complexType xs:anyType)inputBoundaryType Enumeration element \[0..1\] inputBoundaryType (enumeration inputBoundsType)inputBounds Any element \[0..\] inputBounds (complexType xs:anyType)

&lt;!-- Page 35 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 200511 Figure 8PDEparameter7.1.4.8 PDEbody7.1.4.8.1 The PDEbody class is mapped to the XML complexType also named PDEbody. Table 9 shows that thePDEbody is of type xs:any. This type allows the implementation to place elements and attributes in an instance ofPDEbody without restriction. The resulting XML structure is illustrated in Figure 9.Table 9 Translation Table For PDEbody Attribute or Role Name UML Type XML Element or Attribute(or Reference) XML Name/Type none n/a element or attribute \[0..\] user defined Figure 9PDEbody 7.1.4.9 PDEbodyReference7.1.4.9.1 The PDEbodyReference class is mapped to the XML complexType also named PDEbodyReference.Table 10 shows how the attributes of PDEbodyReference are mapped to XML. The resulting XML structure isillustrated in Figure 10.7.1.4.9.2 See 7.2.1 for instructions on the calculation of the value of the bodyChecksum element.Table 10 Translation Table For PDEbodyReference Attribute or Role Name UML Type XML Element or Attribute(or Reference) XML Name/Type bodyChecksum Checksum element bodyChecksum (simpleType Checksum)specification String element specification (simpleType xs:string) Figure 10PDEbodyReference

&lt;!-- Page 36 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 2005 12 7.1.5 Added XML Constructs7.1.5.1 In the process of translating the UML model for the PDE into a useful XML schema, is was necessary toadd certain types and constructs to the schema. This section describes these XML constructs.7.1.5.2 XML simpleTypes7.1.5.2.1 Table 11 describes each simpleType2 added to the PDE schema.Table 11 simpleTypes In The PDE SchemaType Description UUIDHolds a standard 36-character uuid string. The pattern is defined as five groups ofcharacters, each separated by the - character. Here is an example value in UUID format:44BBA855-CC51-11CF-AAFA-00AA00B6015C.Checksum Holds a 128-bit MD5 checksum value. The simpleType is hexBinary  32 charactersrepresenting 4 bits each (16 bytes).InputBoundsType This construct defines the enumerated choices (List or Range) needed for the attributeinputBoundsType of PDEparameter. 7.1.5.3 Added XML complexTypes7.1.5.3.1 Table 12 describes each complexType2 added to the PDE schema.Table 12 complexTypes In The PDE SchemaType DescriptionListOfStrings Holds a collection of zero or more strings. 7.2 Requirements For PDE Schema7.2.1 This section contains all requirements specified for the PDE Schema. 7.1 above is included fordocumentation purposes.7.2.2 Checksum Calculation7.2.2.1 The method for calculation of checksum values is specified by the SEMI E139 RaP standard to be MD5.The MD5 calculation processes a sequence of bytes (or octets) to yield the checksum value. This section specifiesthat sequence of bytes for the PDE and external PDEbody.7.2.2.2 PDE Checksum7.2.2.2.1 The PDE checksum element value shall be calculated based on the XML instance document for the PDE.This applies to PDEs that have internal PDEbodies and also to those that do not.7.2.2.2.2 XML documents can contain white space and layout information that is independent of the XML content.So, two XML documents that have identical XML content might not be identical byte for byte. Allowance has beenmade for these differences.7.2.2.2.3 The W3C recommendation xml-c14n (http://www.w3c.org/TR/xml-c14n) defines a method for creating acanonical form of an XML document. This canonicalization process eliminates the white space and layoutinformation from the checksum calculation. The xml-c14n recommendation shall be applied in the following way: The checksum calculation shall be performed on a canonicalized form of the RaP:PDE element. Thecomputation of the checksum shall be equivalent to the procedure described below:o In the RaP:PDE element of the original PDE replace the value of the 'checksum' element by00000000000000000000000000000000 (that is, 32 zeroes). 2 simpleType and complexType are XML terms (see also xs:simpleType and xs:complexType).

&lt;!-- Page 37 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 200513 o Convert the modified PDE element to its canonical form according to W3C recommendation xml-c14nwithout comments (that is, the with comments option is not used). This yields an octet stream encoded inUTF-8.o Apply the MD5 algorithm to the resulting octet stream to compute the checksum. 7.2.2.2.4 The resulting checksum value can be used as needed. For example, if a new PDE is being created, thevalue may be placed into the checksum element. For an existing PDE, the value may be compared with the existingvalue of the checksum element to determine if the content is unchanged.7.2.2.3 PDEbody BodyChecksum7.2.2.3.1 The format of an external PDEbody is determined by the equipment supplier. In this case, the entirePDEbody content as contained within TransferContainer shall be included in the checksum calculation process. Thecalculation method for the bodyChecksum attribute of the PDEbodyReference element is MD5 as specified by theE139 RaP standard.7.2.3 XML Schema7.2.3.1 All PDE instance documents shall conform to the XML schema document named: E139-1.V0705.RaP.PDE.xsd 7.2.3.2 The contents of the above-mentioned schema document constitute a core part of this specification. Thisschema document should be provided with this document.7.2.3.3 In addition, all PDE instance documents shall conform to all requirements related to the PDE content asspecified in SEMI E139. 8 Manifest Schema Definition8.1 Manifest Mapping to XML8.1.1 This section describes how the Manifest definition from SEMI E139 is mapped to XML. The descriptions inthis section are provided to support and explain the XML schema document (attached, see 8.2). This sectioncontains no requirements. Specific requirements are included in 8.2.8.1.2 Manifest Class8.1.2.1 SEMI E139 does not represent the Manifest in UML. To facilitate creation of the Manifest schema, theManifest itself is treated as a single class containing an unordered sequence of Entries.8.1.2.2 The first two columns of the Translation Table for this Manifest class (Table 13) hold little informationbecause this class was not explicitly defined in SEMI E139. However, the second two columns describe the XMLform of the Manifest class. Figure 11 shows the XML form of the Manifest.Table 13 Translation Table For Manifest ClassAttribute or RoleName UML Type XML Element or Attribute (orReference) XML Name/Type element Manifest (complexType) element Entry (complexType) UUID element uid (simpleType UUID) String element PDEdescriptor (simpleType xs:string) String element PDEbodyDescriptor (simpleType xs:string) String element location (simpleType xs:string)

&lt;!-- Page 38 --&gt;

SEMI E139.1-0705 © SEMI 2005 14 Figure 11Manifest 8.1.3 XML simpleTypes8.1.3.1 Table 11 describes each simpleType added to the XML schema for the Manifest.Table 14 simpleTypes In The PDE SchemaType DescriptionUUID Holds a standard 36-character uuid string. The pattern is defined as five groups of characters, eachseparated by the - character. Here is an example value in UUID format: 44BBA855-CC51-11CF-AAFA-00AA00B6015C. 8.2 Requirements For Manifest Schema8.2.1 This section contains all requirements specified for the PDE Schema. 8.1 above is included fordocumentation purposes.8.2.2 All Manifest instance documents shall conform to the XML schema document named: E139-1.V0705.RaP.Manifest.xsd 8.2.3 The contents of the above-mentioned schema document constitute a core part of this specification. Thisschema document should be provided with this document.8.2.4 In addition, all Manifest instance documents shall conform to all requirements related to the Manifest contentas specified in SEMI E139. 9 Related DocumentsRivest, Ronald, The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm, IETF RFC: 1992 http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1321.txt. NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standards set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturer's instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature, respecting any materials or equipment mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change withoutnotice.By publication of this standard, Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any items mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 39 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 20051 SEMI E142-0705SPECIFICATION FOR SUBSTRATE MAPPING This specification was technically approved by the Global Information & Control Committee and is the directresponsibility of the North American Information & Control Committee. Current edition approved by theNorth American Regional Standards Committee on December 10, 2004. Initially available at www.semi.orgJanuary 2005; to be published March 2005.NOTICE: The designation of SEMI M55 was updated during the 0705 publishing cycle to reflect the creation ofSEMI E142.1.1 Purpose1.1 This document defines the data items that are required to report, store and transmit map data for substrates suchas wafers, frames, strips and trays. 2 Scope2.1 This version of the document applies to the substrate types; wafers, frames, strips and trays.2.2 This document addresses assembly and packaging including the testing of semiconductor devices.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to address safety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine theapplicability of regulatory or other limitations prior to use. 3 Limitations3.1 This document does not address the transmission, file naming conventions, storage or archiving of substratemaps. These will be addressed in sub-documents of this specification. 4 Referenced Standards4.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E39  Object Services Standard; Concept, Behavior and ServicesNOTICE: Unless otherwise indicated, all documents cited shall be the latest published versions. 5 Terminology5.1 Definitions5.1.1 bottom side  the bottom side of the substrate as defined in the corresponding Appendix (Appendix 1, 2,or 3).5.1.2 device  the unit to which the device status code in the map is assigned including, but not limited to: die on awafer, multi-chip modules, and packages.5.1.3 map  a two-dimensional array of bin codes derived from electrical test data of a substrate including, but notlimited to: wafer, tray, strip, or tape.5.1.4 substrate  any carrier of a two-dimensional array of devices including, but not limited to: wafers, trays,strips, tape, panels, or boards.5.1.5 top side  the top side of the substrate as defined in the corresponding Appendix for that substrate(Appendix 1, 2, or 3). 6 Requirements6.1 This standard defines the data items that are required in a substrate map. This standard places no specialrequirements on the file naming conventions, storage, or archiving of substrate maps.

&lt;!-- Page 40 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 2 7 Conventions7.1 Object Conventions  This document conforms to the conventions for objects established by SEMI E39,including object diagrams, object terminology, and requirements for standardized objects. Accordingly, notation isbased on Unified Modeling Language (UML).7.2 Object Attribute Representation  The object information models for standardized objects will be supported byan attribute definition table with the following column headings: Attribute Name Definition Access Requirement FormThe formal text name of the attribute. Description of the information contained. RO or RW Y or N (see below) 7.2.1 The Access column uses RO (Read Only) or RW (Read and Write) to indicate the access that service-usershave to the attribute.7.2.2 A Y or N in the requirement (Rqmt) column indicates if this attribute must be supported in order to meetfundamental compliance for the service.7.2.2.1 The Form column is used to indicate the format of the attribute.7.2.3 Formal Name of an Object  The text capitalizes formal object name references. Similar to the waycapitalization is normally used when discussing entities. When describing something in the general (like cities)lower case is used, but when a specific entity is of interest (New York City), then first letters are capitalized.7.2.4 Components of Complex Attributes  The names of object attributes defined in tables are left-justified. Theindividual elements of complex attributes are right-justified in order of appearance below the complex attribute.7.3 Service Message Representation  Services are functions or methods that may be provided by either theequipment or the host. A service message may be either a request message, which always requires a response, or anotification message, that does not require a response.7.3.1 Service Definition7.3.1.1 A service definition table defines the specific set of messages for a given service resource, as shown in thefollowing table: Message Service Name Type Description 7.3.1.2 Type can be either N = Notification or R = Request & Response.7.3.1.3 Notification type messages are initiated by the service provider (e.g., the equipment) and the provider doesnot expect to get a response from the service user. Request messages are initiated by a service user (e.g., the host).Request messages ask for data or an activity from the provider. Request messages expect a specific responsemessage (no presumption on the message content).7.3.2 Service Parameter Dictionary7.3.2.1 A service parameter dictionary table defines the description, format and its possible value for parametersused by services, as shown in the following table: Parameter Name Description Format: Possible Value 7.3.2.2 A row is provided in the table for each parameter of a service.

&lt;!-- Page 41 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 20053 7.3.3 Service Message Definition7.3.3.1 A service message definition table defines the parameters used in a service, as shown in the following table: Parameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf Comment 7.3.3.2 The columns labeled REQ/IND and RSP/CNF link the parameters to the direction of the message. Themessage sent by the initiator is called the Request. The receiver terms this message the Indication or the request.The receiver may then send a Response which the original sender terms the Confirmation.7.3.3.3 The following codes appear in the REQ/IND and RSP/CNF columns and are used in the definition of theparameters (eg., how each parameter is used in each direction): M Mandatory Parameter  Must be given a valid value.C Conditional Parameter  May be defined in some circumstances and undefined in others. Whether a value is givenmay be completely optional or may depend on the value of the other parameter.U User-Defined Parameter.- The parameter is not used.= (For response only.) Indicates that the value of this parameter in the response must match that in the primary (ifdefined). 8 Overview8.1 Substrate maps are two dimensional arrays of data that correspond to a physical substrate which may be a wafer,strip or tray as shown in the Appendices. It is expected that other substrate types will be added to subsequentreleases of this standard.8.2 The data items are defined as attributes of the objects shown in Figure 1 Map Data Object Model.

&lt;!-- Page 42 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 4 MapData BinDefinition BinCode DeviceIdMap Transfer TransferMap DeviceId BinCodeMap AliasIdOverlayReferenceDevice SubstrateSubstrateMapLayout SubstrateMaps Overlays Aliases ReferenceDevices DeviceIds TransfersBinCodes ChildLayout BinDefinitions Layouts Substrates 1 0..\* 1..\*1..\* 1..\* 1..\* 0..\* 0..\* 1 1 1 0..\*0..\* 1 1 1 1 1 0..\* 0..\* Figure 1Map Data Object Model 9 MapData9.1 The MapData object contains a list of zero or more Layout objects, a list of zero or more SubstrateMap objectsand a list of zero or more Substrate objects.Table 1 MapData Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormFormatRevision Specifies the exact name and revision of the format usedto represent substrate map data. This field can be used bya parser to automatically determine the format of theremaining substrate map data. RO N Text 10 Layout10.1 The Layout object defines the logical and physical dimensions of two-dimensional array of devices to which aSubstrateMap may be assigned. A substrate must have a top level layout that defines the size of the substrate itself.Any layout object can reference other child layout objects. In this way complex assemblies may be represented.See the examples in Related Information 1.

&lt;!-- Page 43 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 20055 Table 2 Layout Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormLayoutId The layout identifier. This must be unique within thescope of MapData.RO Y Text DefaultUnits The units in which physical dimensions and coordinatesare represented unless otherwise specified.RO Y Text Dimension The number of columns (X-axis) and rows (Y-axis) in thelayout.If this is the top level layout then X = 1, Y = 1. RO Y LogicalCoordinates(see Table 3) DeviceSize The X and Y dimensions of the device.If this is the top level layout, then this defines the size ofthe substrate itself.If not present, then DeviceSize is not defined. RO N XYDimensions(see Table 4) StepSize The distance from a reference point on one device to thesame reference point on the adjacent device. StepSize DeviceSize is equal to the street width between devices.If not present, then StepSize is not defined. RO N XYDimensions(see Table 4) LowerLeft The distance in microns of the lower left corner of thislayout from the lower left corner of the parent layout.If this is the top level layout, then LowerLeft.X = 0 andLowerLeft.X = 0.If not present, then LowerLeft.X = 0 and LowerLeft.X =0. RO N XYDimensions(see Table 4) Z The logical and physical height of the device above (orbelow) the parent layout.If this is the top level layout, then Z.Order = 0 andZ.Height = 0.If not present, then Z.Order = 0 and Z.Height = 0. RO N ZDimensions(see Table 5) TopImage Name of an image file showing the top side of anindividual device in the layout.RO N Text BottomImage Name of an image file showing the bottom side of anindividual device in the layout.RO N Text ProductId Product identifier for a device in this layout. RO N TextTopLevel TopLevel = True implies that this is a top level layout.TopLevel = False implies that this layout is the child ofanother layout.If this is the top level layout, then TopLevel = True.If not present, then TopLevel = False. TopLevel may beomitted from child layouts. RO N Boolean Table 3 LogicalCoordinates Type Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormX The column or X logical coordinate, according to thevalues of SubstrateMap coordinate attributes;SubstrateSide, Orientation, OriginLocation, andAxisDirection. RO Y Integer Y The row or Y logical coordinate, according to the valuesof SubstrateMap coordinate attributes; SubstrateSide,Orientation, OriginLocation, and AxisDirection. RO Y Integer

&lt;!-- Page 44 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 6 Table 4 XYDimensions Type Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormX The physical offset from the origin along the X axis,according to the values of SubstrateMap coordinateattributes; SubstrateSide, Orientation, OriginLocation, andAxisDirection. RO Y Floating point value Y The physical offset from the origin along the Y axis,according to the values of SubstrateMap coordinateattributes; SubstrateSide, Orientation, OriginLocation, andAxisDirection. RO Y Floating point value Units The units in which X and Y coordinates are represented.If omitted then the Layout, DefaultUnits is used.RO N Text Table 5 ZDimensions Type Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormOrder The order of the layouts in the Z dimension, according tothe values of SubstrateMap coordinate attributes;SubstrateSide, and Orientation.Layouts with higher values for Order are in front of thosewith smaller values.If this is the top level layout, then Order =0.If not present, then Order =0. RO N Integer Height The height of the device above (or below) the parentlayout, according to the values of SubstrateMapcoordinate attributes; SubstrateSide, and Orientation.If this is the top level layout, then Height =0.If not present, then Height =0. RO N Floating point value Units The units in which Height is represented.If omitted then the Layout.DefaultUnits is used.RO N Text 11 Substrate11.1 The Substrate object identifies a substrate to which a SubstrateMap may be assigned. A Substrate object mayhave one or more AliasId objects.Table 6 Substrate Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormSubstrateType The type of substrate. A choice of Wafer, Frame,Strip or Tray.RO Y Text SubstrateId The substrate identifier. RO Y Text 1 to 32 charactersLotId Production lot identifier for this data. RO N Text 1 to 32 charactersCarrierType The type of wafer carrier, e.g. Cassette, FOUP, etc. RO N TextCarrierId A character code that may be printed or encoded on thesubstrate carrier, which uniquely identifies the substratecarrier. RO N Text 1 to 32 characters SlotNumber This identifies the slot in the carrier in which the substrateis placed.RO N Positive Integer SubstrateNumber Identifies the substrate within a lot. RO N Positive Integer

&lt;!-- Page 45 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 20057 Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormGoodDevices The total number of good devices on the substrate. Thedefinition of good is beyond the scope of this document.RO N Positive Integer SupplierName Name of the supplier of the substrate. RO N TextCreateDate Date and time when the map data is acquired: formatted asYYYYMMDDhhmmsscc (year-month-date-hour-minute-second-centisecond). RO N Text LastModified Date and time when the map data was last modified:formatted as YYYYMMDDhhmmsscc (year-month-date-hour-minute-second-centisecond). RO N Text Status Status of map data supplying process or precedingprocess.RO N Text 11.2 AliasId11.2.1 The AliasId object contains other substrate identifiers that may be used to trace the substrate throughout thesubstrates life cycle.Table 7 AliasId Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormType Type of identifier, e.g. FrontsideId, BacksideId,WaferId, FrameId .RO Y Text Value Value of the identifier. RO Y Text 1 to 32 characters 12 SubstrateMap12.1 The SubstrateMap object relates to a single substrate and layout and contains a list of one or more Overlayobjects. It may also include a substrate type specific object depending on the value of \[SubstrateType\].12.2 If there are more than one SubstrateMap assigned to a Substrate and Layout combination they should differ ineither their Orientation, OriginLocation or both. For example there may be a map for the top side and one for thebottom side of a Layout.Table 8 SubstrateMap Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormSubstrateType A reference to the type of substrate to which the map dataapplies.RO Y Text SubstrateId A reference to the substrate identifier to which the mapdata applies.RO Y Text 1 to 32 characters LayoutSpecifier A reference to the layout to which the map data applies.The LayoutSpecifier defines the full path, using / as adelimiter from the top level layout to the layout to bespecified for example; WaferLayout/L1/DeviceLayout. RO Y Text SubstrateSide Coordinate system attribute that defines the side of thesubstrate. Restricted to the values;TopSide\*Bottom Side\* Default value if this item is not present. RO N Text

&lt;!-- Page 46 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 8 Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormOrientation Coordinate system attribute that defines the orientation ofthe substrate in relation to the map data. This variablewill increase in the right (clockwise) direction from 0°. Itis restricted to values from 0°-359°.\* Default value if this item is not present is 0°.. RO N Integer OriginLocation Coordinate system attribute that defines location of thecoordinate system origin. Restricted to the values (seeFigure A2-1 for an example);LowerLeft\*UpperLeftLowerRightUpperRightCenter\* Default value if this item is not present. RO N Text AxisDirection Coordinate system attribute that defines direction in whichthe Y and X axis, respectively increase. Restricted to thevalues (see Figure A2-1 for an example);UpRight\*DownRightUpLeftDownLeft\* Default value if this item is not present. RO N Text 13 Overlay13.1 The Overlay object is an array of data that corresponds to the dimensions on the Layout to which thecontaining SubstrateMap is assigned. The specialized objects (e.g. BinCodeMap, DeviceIdMap, TransferMap) areextensions of the Overlay object which each define a different type of data. See the definitions of the specializedobjects in the sections below. An Overlay object may have one or more ReferenceDevice objects.Table 9 Overlay Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormMapName A name that describes the purpose of the bin codes in themap. Possible examples include: CellStatus,DefectCode, MarkGrade, PackageGrade,SortGrade, DeviceId, Transfer. RO Y Text MapVersion The version is used to distinguish between multiple versionsof maps for the same substrate with the same MapName.RO N Text 13.2 ReferenceDevice13.2.1 The ReferenceDevice object defines a reference device on the substrate.Table 10 ReferenceDevice Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormCoordinates X and Y coordinate of the reference device to align devicematrix on physical substrate with the map data.RO Y LogicalCoordinates(see Table 3)Position Offset of the center of a reference device in the X and Ydirections from the center of substrate.RO N XYDimensions(see Table 4)

&lt;!-- Page 47 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 20059 Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormName Descriptive name for the reference, e.g. First Device,Prober OriginRO N Text 13.3 BinCodeMap13.3.1 The BinCodeMap object contains a list of zero or more BinDefinition objects and a list of one or moreBinCode objects.Table 11 BinCodeMap Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormBinType #1, #2 The format in which the each device will be represented.The following values are reserved:BinType = Ascii: Single ASCII character (1 byte perdevice)BinType = Decimal: 3 digit integer from 000 to 255 (1byte per device)BinType = HexaDecimal: 2 digit Hexadecimal value from00 to FF (1 byte per device)BinType = Integer2: 4 digit Hexadecimal value from 0000to FFFF (2 bytes per device) RO Y Text NullBin Code to indicate no device or not measured device inBinCode.Values. It should be represented according toBinType. RO Y Text #1 For readability when BinType = Decimal there must be spaces added between each device and each row of devices should be on a new line.#2 When BinType = Ascii or Hexadecimal or Integer2 there must not be spaces between each device and for readability, each row should beon a new line. 13.3.2 BinCode13.3.2.1 The BinCode contains the actual bin code values.Table 12 BinCode Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormValues The concatentation of bin code values represented accordingto the value of BinCodeMap.BinType. \[Values\] may containjust one bin code, a row of bin codes or the entire map of bincodes. RO Y Text X The X coordinate of the device to which the first bin codeapplies, according to the values of SubstrateMap coordinateattributes; SubstrateSide, Orientation, OriginLocation, andAxisDirection.If omitted X = 0. RO N Integer Y The Y coordinate of the device to which the first bin codeapplies, according to the values of SubstrateMap coordinateattributes; SubstrateSide, Orientation, OriginLocation, andAxisDirection.If omitted Y is derived from the ordinal position of theBinCode object in the parent BinCodeMap object. The firstBinCode object is the top row. RO N Integer

&lt;!-- Page 48 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 10 Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormNumber The number of contiguous bin codes in the Values attribute.If omitted Number is derived from the length of the Valuesattribute and the value of BinCodeMap.BinType. Forexample, if BinCodeMap.BinType = HexaDecimal, Number= LengthOf(Values) / 2 RO N Integer 13.3.3 Map Representation Types13.3.3.1 A BinCode object may contains bin code information for a single device, a row of devices or the entiremap of devices. The choice depends on whether the primary objective is readability, compactness or flexibility.13.3.3.2 The most readable approach is to represent all the devices in a row in a single BinCode entry. The lengthof each row is equal to the value of Layout.Columns. Locations in the layout that do not contain a device areassigned to the BinCodeMap.NullBin value. Alternatively, a starting XY coordinate and length may be specified.This approach offers good readability and a balance between compactness and flexibility. See Figure A1-1aRow/Column Format.13.3.3.3 For a more compact representation, a single BinCode object can include the entire array of bin codes inrow major format starting at the top left. See Figure A1-1b Array Format.13.3.3.4 A less compact but more flexible approach is to include a separate BinCode object for each individualdevice. The X and Y coordinates must both be included. See Figure A1-1c Coordinate Format13.3.4 BinDefinition13.3.4.1 The BinDefinition object describes a bin code that may be present in the map.Table 13 BinDefinition Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormBinCode A bin category, other that the value assigned toBinCodeMap.NullBin, that may be assigned to a device. Itshould be represented according to BinCodeMap.BinType. RO Y Unsigned 1 byteinteger unlessBinCodeMap.BinType attribute isInteger2, in whichcase it is a 2 byteinteger.BinCount The number of devices on the substrate with the specifiedBinCode.If not present then BinCount is undefined. RO N Positive Integer BinDescription A description of the specified BinCode, e.g. 100MHz.If not present then BinDescription is undefined.RO N Text BinQuality Describes the quality of the specified BinCode.The following values are reserved:Pass  Indicates a quality that has commercial valueFail  Indicates a quality that does not have commercialvalueOther values defined by an application.If not present then BinQuality is undefined. RO N Text Pick Pick = True indicates that devices with this BinCode shouldbe processed.Pick = False indicates that devices with this BinCode shouldnot be processed.If not present that Pick=False. RO N Boolean

&lt;!-- Page 49 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 200511 13.4 DeviceIdMap13.4.1 The DeviceIdMap object contains a list of one or more DeviceId objects.13.4.2 DeviceId13.4.2.1 The DeviceId object contains the device coordinate and the value of the identifier marked on that device.Table 14 DeviceId Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormValue The device identifier. RO Y TextX The X coordinate of the device with thesubstrate oriented, according to the valuesof SubstrateMap coordinate attributes;SubstrateSide, Orientation, OriginLocation,and AxisDirection. RO Y Integer Y The Y coordinate of the device with thesubstrate oriented, according to the valuesof SubstrateMap coordinate attributes;SubstrateSide, Orientation, OriginLocation,and AxisDirection. RO Y Integer 13.5 TransferMap13.5.1 The TransferMap object contains a list of one or more Transfer objects.Table 15 TransferMap Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormFromSubstrateType The type of substrate from which the devices were transferred.A choice of Wafer, Frame, Strip or Tray.RO Y Text FromSubstrateId The identifier of substrate from which the devices weretransferred.RO Y Text 13.5.2 Transfer13.5.2.1 The Transfer object defines, for an individual device, the coordinates on the substrate from which thedevice was picked and the coordinates at which the device was placed on the substrate to which this TransferMapapplies.Table 16 Transfer Attributes Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormFX The X coordinate on the substrate from which the device waspicked, according to the values of SubstrateMap coordinateattributes; SubstrateSide, Orientation, OriginLocation, andAxisDirection. RO Y Integer FY The Y coordinate on the substrate from which the device waspicked, according to the values of SubstrateMap coordinateattributes; SubstrateSide, Orientation, OriginLocation, andAxisDirection. RO Y Integer TX The X coordinate at which the device was placed on the substrateto which this map applies, according to the values ofSubstrateMap coordinate attributes; SubstrateSide, Orientation,OriginLocation, and AxisDirection. RO Y Integer

&lt;!-- Page 50 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 12 Attribute Name Definition Access Reqd FormTY The Y coordinate at which the device was placed on the substrateto which this map applies, according to the values ofSubstrateMap coordinate attributes; SubstrateSide, Orientation,OriginLocation, and AxisDirection. RO Y Integer 14 Services14.1 Table 18 shows the services defined for map data.Table 17 Map Data Services Message Service Name Type DescriptionMapDownload R Download Map DataMapUpload N Upload Map Data 14.2 Map Download Service14.2.1 This service may be used to download MapData for a single substrate.Table 18 Map Download Parameter Dictionary Parameter Name Description Format: Possible valuesSubstrateType The type of substrate to which the MapData applies. TextRestricted to the values:Wafer, Frame, Strip or TraySubstrateId The identifier of the substrate to which the MapData applies. TextMapData The MapData for the specified substrate. TextOther standards that define animplementation of this service andreference this standard will definehow the MapData is represented intext. Table 19 Map Download Service Definition Parameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommentSubstrateType M - Type of substrate to which download.SubstrateId M - Identifier of substrate to download.MapData - M The MapData for the specified substrate. 14.3 Map Upload Service14.3.1 This service may be used to upload MapData for one ore more substrates.