---
title: "E42-0704 - © SEMI 1995, 2004..."
description: "SEMI标准文档"
sidebar_label: "E42-0704 - © SEMI 1995, 2004..."
sidebar_position: 38
tags: ['SEMI', 'Standard']
custom_props:
  source_type: 'pdf'
  source_file: 'semi-chapter-038.pdf'
  chapter: 38
  page_count: 50
---

import PdfDownloadCard from '@site/src/components/PdfDownloadCard';
import PdfViewer from '@site/src/components/PdfViewer';

<PdfDownloadCard
  pdfLink="/pdfs/semi/038.pdf"
  pdfSize="N/A"
  title="E42-0704 - © SEMI 1995, 2004..."
  description="SEMI标准文档，共50页"
/>

---

## 📖 查看PDF原文档（包含完整图表和格式）

<PdfViewer pdfPath="/pdfs/semi/038.pdf" />



&lt;!-- Page 1 --&gt;

SEMI E42-0704 © SEMI 1995, 2004 120 BAKE;2.3 BakeTime undefined for unlinked recipeR1-6 Applications of Object ServicesObject Services are defined in SEMI E39 (Object Services Standard (OSS): Concepts, Behavior, and Services). Thissection provides a description of how these services may be applied for RMS.R1-6.1 Scope  Scope may be used to specify the namespace of interest. It may also be used to specify anamespace or recipe execution resource belonging to a component agent of the service provider. For example, scopeallows a factory host to ask a cluster tool for the attributes of a cluster module.Scope may be used to point to one of several namespaces supported by an agent.R1-6.2 Filter  A filter may be used when asking a namespace for a list of recipe identifiers to limit the number ofidentifiers returned. For example, the service user may ask a namespace for a list of recipe identifiers that wereedited by Tom (Attribute name = EditedBy, Attribute value = Tom, Attribute Relation = is equal to) andthat are linked (Attribute name = Linked, Attribute value = TRUE, Attribute Relation = is equal to).R1-6.3 Complex Attributes  Object Services do not provide a way to change individual elements in an attributewith a structure or list form. To add, delete, or modify items in a list or structure, it is necessary to first get thecurrent attribute value for the object of interest using the GetAttr service, to make the desired changes externally tothe value, and then to write the new value using the SetAttr service. R1-7 Examples of RMS ApplicationFigure R1-2 illustrates possible interactions between a namespace and namespace manager implemented on afactory system, a diskless equipment with a recipe executor, and an operator. Figure R1-2Example of RMS Applications

&lt;!-- Page 2 --&gt;

SEMI E42-0704 © SEMI 1995, 2004121 Other examples would be similar. Interactions are primarily with external service users of namespace and recipeexecution capabilities, and between namespace managers and recipe executors.Namespaces do not interact with one another. To copy a recipe from one namespace to another, an intermediary isrequired. This is not covered by RMS. NOTICE: These standards do not purport to address safety issues, if any, associated with their use. It is theresponsibility of the user of these standards to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine theapplicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitabilityof the standards set forth herein for any particular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard issolely the responsibility of the user. Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturer's instructions, product labels,product data sheets, and other relevant literature respecting any materials mentioned herein. These standards aresubject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility that compliance with this standard may require use of copyrightedmaterial or of an invention covered by patent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMI takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any item mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 3 --&gt;

SEMI E42.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20041 SEMI E42.1-0704STANDARD FOR SECS-II PROTOCOL FOR RECIPE MANAGEMENTSTANDARD (RMS) This standard was technically approved by the Global Information & Control Committee and is the directresponsibility of the Japanese Information & Control Committee. Current edition approved by the JapaneseRegional Standards Committee on April 30, 2004. Initially available at www.semi.org June 2004; to bepublished July 2004. Originally published in 1996; previously published September 1997. 1 Purpose1.1 This document maps the services and data of theparent document to SECS-II streams and functions anddata definitions. 2 Scope2.1 This document applies to all implementations ofRecipe Management that use the SECS-II messageprotocol (SEMI E5).NOTICE: This standard does not purport to addresssafety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establishappropriate safety and health practices and determinethe applicability of regulatory or other limitations priorto use. 3 Referenced Standards3.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E5  SEMI Equipment CommunicationsStandard 2 Message Content (SECS-II)SEMI E42  Recipe Management Standard: Concepts,Behavior, and Message ServicesNOTICE: Unless otherwise indicated, all documentscited shall be the latest published versions. 4 TerminologyNone. 5 Service Mapping5.1 Table 1 shows the specific SECS-II streams andfunctions that shall be used for SECS-IIimplementations of the services defined in RMS.5.2 Request and notification messages are mapped toprimary (odd-numbered) SECS-II functions andresponse messages are mapped to secondary (even-numbered) SECS-II functions.5.3 In several cases, a common set of parametersallows more than one RMS services to be mapped to asingle stream and function, with an additional SECS-IIdata item used to differentiate between the two services.RMNCreateNS and RMNDeleteNS both map toS15,F3/F4, RMNCreate and RMNUpdate both map toS15,F13/14, and RMNCopy and RMNRename bothmap to S15,F19/20.5.4 In addition, the notification messages RMNCom-plete, RMEComplete, RMEChange, RMDComplete,and RMDNotify all map to S6,F25/F26. Table 1 Services Mapping Table Message Name Stream, Function SECS-II NameRMNCreateNS S15,F3/F4 Recipe Namespace Action Request/AcknowledgeRMNDeleteNS S15,F3/F4 Recipe Namespace Action Request/AcknowledgeRMNRenameNS S15,F5/F6 Recipe Namespace Rename Request/AcknowledgeRMNSpaceInquire S15,F7/F8 Recipe Space Request/DataRMNRcpStatInquire S15,F9/F10 Recipe Status Request/DataRMNVersionInquire S15,F11/F12 Recipe Version Request/DataRMNCreate S15,F13/F14 Recipe Create Request/AcknowledgeRMNUpdate S15,F13/F14 Recipe Create Request/AcknowledgeRMNStore S15,F15/F16 Recipe Store Request/AcknowledgeRMNRetrieve S15,F17/F18 Recipe Retrieve Request/DataRMNCopy S15,F19/F20 Recipe Rename Request/AcknowledgeRMNRename S15,F19/F20 Recipe Rename Request/Acknowledge

&lt;!-- Page 4 --&gt;

SEMI E42.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 2 Message Name Stream, Function SECS-II NameRMNAction S15,F21/F22 Recipe Action Request/AcknowledgeRMNGetDescriptor S15,F23/F24 Recipe Descriptor Request/DataRMNVarPar S15,F25/F26 Recipe Parameter Update Request/AcknowledgeRMNComplete S6,F25 Notification Report SendRMEDnldVer S15,F27/F28 Recipe DownloadRMEVerify S15,F29/F30 Recipe VerifyRMEUpload S15,F31/F32 Recipe UploadRMESpaceInquire S15,F7/F8 Recipe Space Request/DataRMERename S15,F19/F20 Recipe Rename Request/AcknowledgeRMEDelete S15,F35/F36 Recipe Delete Request/AcknowledgeRMESelect S15,F33/F34 Recipe Select Request/AcknowledgeRMEDeselect S15,F35/F36 Recipe Deselect Request/AcknowledgeRMEGetDescriptor S15,F23/F24 Recipe Descriptor Request/DataRMNAction S15,F21/F22 Recipe Action Request/AcknowledgeRMEChange S6,F25 Notification Report SendRMEComplete S6,F25 Notification Report SendRMDSApproveAction S15,F37/F38 DRNS Segment Approve Action Request/AcknowledgeRMDRAdd SegRecord S15,F39/F40 DRNS Recorder Segment Request/AcknowledgeRMDRDelSegRecord S15,F39/F40 DRNS Recorder Segment Request/AcknowledgeRMDRAddChgRecord S15,F41/F42 DRNS Recorder Modify Request/AcknowledgeRMDRDelChgRecord S15,F41/F42 DRNS Recorder Modify Request/AcknowledgeRMDRGetChgRecord S15,F43/F44 DRNS Get Change Request/DataRMDGetChgRequest S15,F43/F44 DRNS Get Change Request/DataRMDSegChange S15,F45/F46 DRNS Manager Segment Change Approval Request/GrantRMDRebuild S15,F47/F48 DRNS Manager Rebuild Request/AcknowledgeRMDComplete S6,F25/F26 Notification Report SendRMDNotify S6,F25/F26 Notification Report SendAttach S14F13,F14 Object Attach Request/Acknowledge (SEMI E39.1)AttachSetAttr S14F15,F16 Attached Object Action request/Acknowledge (SEMI E39.1)AttachSupervisedObject S14F17,F18 Supervised Object Action Request/Acknowledge (SEMI E39.1)Create S14F9,F10 Create Object Request/Acknowledge (SEMI E39.1)Delete S14F11,F12 Delete Object Request/Acknowledge (SEMI E39.1)Detach S14F15,F16 Attached Object Action Request/Acknowledge (SEMI E39.1)DetachSupervisedObject S14F17,F18 Supervised Object Action Request/Acknowledge (SEMI E39.1)Reattach S14F13,F14 Object Attach Request/Acknowledge (SEMI E39.1) 6 Service Parameter Mapping6.1 Table 2 shows the mapping between message parameters defined by RMS and data items defined by SECS-II.For parameters specified in the definitions of an RMS service, either the parameters themselves, or individualelements of complex parameters, map to a specific data item.Table 2 Service Parameters Item Mapping Table Parameter Name SECS-II Data ItemRMSectionsCode RCPSECCODEAgentSpec\_DescLength RCPDESCLTHAgentSpec\_DescName RCPDESCNM = ASDescAgentSpec\_DescTimestamp RCPDESCTIMEAgentSpec\_SectionName RCPSECNM = ASDS

&lt;!-- Page 5 --&gt;

SEMI E42.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20043 Parameter Name SECS-II Data ItemAttrData RCPDESCLTHAttrName ATTRIDBodyData RCPBODYBodyDescLength RCPDESCLTHBodyDescName RCPDESCNM = BodyDescBodyDescTimestamp RCPDESCTIMEBodySectionName RCPSECNM = BodyErrorCode ERRCODEErrorText ERRTEXTGenAttrSectionName RCPSECNM = GenericGenDescLength RCPDESCLTHGenDescTimestamp RCPDESCTIMELinkID LINKIDNSAck RMACKRcpClass RCPCLASSRcpName RCPNAMERcpVersion RCPVERSRMAction RCPCMDRMAgent AGENTRMChangeStatus RMCHGSTATRMDestRecID RCPNEWIDRMNewNS RMNEWNSRMNSSpec RMNSSPECRMOpID OPIDRMParamName RCPPARNMRMParamRule RCPPARRULERMParamSetting RCPPARVALRMRcpID RCPIDRMRcpSpec RCPSPECRMRcpStat RCPSTATRMSectionsCode RCPSECCODERMSpace RMSPACERcpDerivedID RCPIDREAck RMACKREAttrDescLength RCPDESCLTHREAttrDescName RCPDESCNM = REAttrDescREAttrDescTimestamp RCPDESCTIMEREAtrSectionName RCPSECNM = AttributeREChangeStatus CHGCODEREDerivedID RCPIDREDestRcpID RCPNEWIDREOpID OPIDREWOCode REOWCODEREParamName PARAMNAMEREParamSetting PARAMVALUERERcpID RCPIDRERcpSpec RCPSPECRESpace RMSPACERESpec RESPEC

&lt;!-- Page 6 --&gt;

SEMI E42.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 4 Parameter Name SECS-II Data ItemAttachToken OBJTOKENRMChgType RMCHGTYPERMManagerSpec OBJSPECRMPermit RMGRNTRMRecorderSpec OBJSPEC (S15,F43) and RMRECSPEC otherwiseRMRequestor RMREQUESTORRMSegSpec RMSEGSPECRMTimestamp TIMESTAMPTargetSpec TARGETSPEC 6.2 There are also several data items that are used in the SECS-II messages which do not map to specific servicesparameters. Services with the same set of parameters are mapped to the same SECS-II message by adding anadditional data item to differentiate between the services. In addition, SECS-II restrictions require multi-blockprimary messages to be preceded by a multi-block inquire/grant transaction defined within the same stream. ForRMS messages, this requirement is satisfied with the S15,F1 and F2 messages. Data items defined for these twomessages have no counterpart in RMS service parameters.6.3 Table 3 contains the SECS-II data items that have no corresponding RMS service parameter:Table 3 Additional Data Item Requirements TableFunction SECS-II Data ItemUsed to satisfy SECS-II conventions for linking a multi-block inquiry with a subsequent multi-block message.DATAID Used for the name of any non-identifier recipe attribute. RCPATTRIDUsed for the value of any non-identifier recipe attribute. RCPATTRDATAUsed by S15,F19 to differentiate between RMNCopy and RMNRename services. RCPRENAMEUsed to satisfy SECS-II multi-block requirements. RMGRNTUsed by S15,F3 to differentiate between RMNCreateNS and RMNDeleteNS services.Used by S15,F39 to differentiate between RMDRAddSegRecord and RMDRDelSegRecord.Used by S15,F41 to differentiate between RMDRAddChgRecord and RMDRDelChgRecord. RMNSCMD Used to satisfy SECS-II multi-block requirements. Neither required nor specified by RMS. RMDATASIZEUsed by S15,F13 to differentiate between RMNCreate and RMNUpdate services. RCPUPDTUsed by S15,F35 to differentiate between RMEDelete and RMEDeselect services. RCPDELUsed by S15,Fy to differentiate between A and B services. RCPDEL NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standards set forth herein forany particular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturer's instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature respecting any materials mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility that compliance with this standard may require use of copyrightedmaterial or of an invention covered by patent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMI takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any item mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility.

&lt;!-- Page 7 --&gt;

SEMI E42.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20045 RELATED INFORMATION 1 NOTE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI E42.1 and is not intended to modify or supercede theofficial standard. Publication was authorized by full letter ballot procedures. Determination of the suitability of thematerial is solely the responsibility of the user. R1-1 RMS-Compliant Equipment with a Stream 7 HostSemiconductor manufacturers with legacy systems, capable of communicating using Stream 7 messages only, maystill take advantage of many of the Recipe Management concepts when used with equipment that is RecipeManagement-compliant. This section contains guidelines and examples for maintaining recipe attributes within thebody of a Stream 7 process program.R1-1.1 Recipe Identifier  Both the process program identifier PPID and the object identifier, including the recipeidentifier, have a maximum length of 80 characters. Recipe class, name, and version number may be encoded intothe data item PPID using the format required for the recipe identifier./CLASS 1/CLASS2/.../CLASS n/NAME;VERSIONIt is recommended that recipe class names be unique, allowing use of the form/CLASS/NAME;VERSIONto ensure the length conforms to the maximum allowed in SECS-II.R1-1.2 Recipe Sections  All sections of the recipe are transferred together as the data item PPBODY. This allowsall non-default values of recipe attributes to be preserved when a recipe is uploaded to the host and later downloadedback to equipment.There are two potential methods for formatting PPBODY. If the recipe body is a text file, it is recommended that allattribute values are translated into text, including numeric and boolean values, with boolean values represented bythe strings .T. or .F.. The second recommended method, applicable to both source and object forms, uses thestructure of one of the SECS-II messages containing the managed recipe, as illustrated in Figure 1, or of anexecution recipe. A cluster tool supporting shared namespaces, for example, might require multiple agent-specificdata sets, while single-process equipment types would not.R1-1.2.1 Structuring PPBODY Using Text  For purposes of transfer, recipes are regarded as composed ofsections: The generic section, the body section, and zero or more agent-specific data-set sections (RMS, Section12.1). This convention should also be maintained within PPBODY. The SECS-II messages used to transfer recipes(Stream 15, Functions 15 and 18) transfer the data-set sections last, because they are variable in number and are notalways present. However, in a text format within PPBODY, it is generally easier to put all attributes before the body.Since RMS uses the end-of-line character for source form recipes, this convention is recommended to separate thelogical components of the sections containing attributes as well. A few reserved keywords are sufficient as tags toidentify significant components: SECTION, ATTRIBUTE, LIST, PARAMNAME, PARAMSETTING, andPARAMRULE are recommended for consistency. Keywords are in uppercase for visual impact and are notdelimited except for use of whitespace and the line-feed character (0A 16) used as the end-of-line (eol) character.Whitespace is used to separate fields within a line. The symbol  is used here to represent whitespace, which is usedboth as a delimiter to separate fields within a line and also for optional visual effect.Each section begins with a section declaration of the formSECTIONtext(eol)where text is a section name, one of Generic, ASDS, Body. Two sections are separated with two eolcharacters together. The eol convention within the body section, however, must conform to the recipe languagespecifications provided by the equipment manufacturer.Each attribute begins withATTRIBUTEAttributeName

&lt;!-- Page 8 --&gt;

SEMI E42.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 6 followed by the attribute value, which may be a single item, a list of single items, or a list of complex items, such asvariable parameters. If a list, the keyword LIST precedes the values, each item in the list terminated with either acomma or, for the last item, the eol character.This becomesATTRIBUTEAttributeName text(eol) (single-value attributes)orATTRIBUTEAttributeNameLISTtext, text,...(eol)for attributes consisting of lists of single items (e.g., LinkList or ExtRef).If the keyword LIST if followed by eol, this indicates a list of complex items. The eol character, in this case, also isused to terminate the individual items in the high-order list. An attribute consisting of a list of complex items shouldidentify the individual fields of each complex item. Those attributes containing variable parameters (e.g.,Parameters) are of the formATTRIBUTEAttributeNameLIST(eol)PARAMNAMEtext, PARAMSETTINGtext, PARAMRULEtext(eol)PARAMNAMEtext, PARAMSETTINGtext, PARAMRULEtext(eol)...PARAMNAMEtext, PARAMSETTINGtext, PARAMRULEtext(eol)Each individual field within a complex attribute value is delimited with the quotation mark () character. The eolcharacter is used to terminate a section declaration, an attribute declaration, and a complex item within an attribute.The recipe body is preceded withSECTION Body(eol)followed by the recipe body in the form normally used by the equipment.In comparison of the two suggested formats, the advantage of the text form described in this section is that theattributes are human-readable and printable and therefore the user is able to modify those attributes that are notdesignated as read-only with a standard text editor.The advantage of the SECS-II form (Figure 1) is that the equipment is more easily able to support a host that is onlycapable of using Stream 7. R1-2 RMS-Compliant Recipe Management with Stream 7 EquipmentFor RMS-Compliant Recipe Management applications dealing with legacy Stream 7 equipment, the situation ismore restricted. While an RMS-compliant equipment may preserve attributes by bundling them inside the PPBODYof a process program, this option is not available when the situation is reversed because the equipment determinesthe permissible format(s) within the recipe. Therefore, all attributes of the recipe must be completely maintained bythe host. The host in this situation may provide a recipe namespace that is dedicated either to an individualequipment installation, to a group of equipment capable of sharing the same process programs, or both.If the equipment is compliant to Process Program Management as defined in SEMI E30 (GEM), then it will providea collection event when the process program is created, changed, or deleted. Hosts that provide a dedicated recipenamespace for non-RMS equipment are able to use this event to trigger a process program upload and update thecorresponding recipe.Most Stream 7 equipment use only a single type of process program. This defaults to the recipe class PROCESS.The equipment is unaware of the internal fields used by the recipe identifier. If it preserves the contents of PPID anddoes not impose its own restrictions, it may be desirable to use the format of the recipe identifier, in particular theversion component. This would allow version control at the host.

&lt;!-- Page 9 --&gt;

SEMI E42.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20047 Some equipment maintains more than one type of process program and may distinguish between the different typeseither through providing additional Stream 7 messages, through naming conventions such as a .ext extension,through program length, or other devices.Downloading a process program in Stream 7 is equivalent to both the operation of sending a recipe to a differentnamespace (at the equipment) and to downloading a recipe to the recipe executor for execution.R1-2.1 Structuring PPBODY Using SECS-II Message Format  The second method of sending attributes withinPPBODY is to use a SECS-II message structure that is used to send and receive recipes. Figure 1 illustrates usingthe structure of a managed recipe form S15,F13 and F16.Note that cluster tools may provide full recipe namespace capabilities for its modules, including shared namespacesfor modules of a specific type. In this case, a cluster recipe may contain multiple agent-specific datasets (m &gt; 1).Other equipment may be able to use the structure for the execution recipe. L,q (q = 1,2,3)1. L,r (r = 0 or 2)1. 2\. L,g (g = # generic attributes)1. L,21. 2\. ..a. L,21. 2\. 2\. 3\. L,m (m = # agent-specific datasets)1. L,21. 2\. L,b1. L,21. 2\. ..b. L,21. 2\. ..m. L,21. 2\. L,c1. L,21. 2\. ..c. L,21. 2\. Figure 1SECS-II Format for PPBODY

&lt;!-- Page 10 --&gt;

SEMI E42.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 8 NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties orrepresentations as to the suitability of the standards setforth herein for any particular application. Thedetermination of the suitability of the standard is solelythe responsibility of the user. Users are cautioned torefer to manufacturer's instructions, product labels,product data sheets, and other relevant literaturerespecting any materials mentioned herein. Thesestandards are subject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility thatcompliance with this standard may require use ofcopyrighted material or of an invention covered bypatent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMItakes no position respecting the validity of any patentrights or copyrights asserted in connection with anyitem mentioned in this standard. Users of this standardare expressly advised that determination of any suchpatent rights or copyrights, and the risk of infringementof such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 11 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20041 SEMI E53-0704EVENT REPORTING This standard was technically approved by the Global Information & Control Committee and is the directresponsibility of the Japanese Information & Control Committee. Current edition approved by the JapaneseRegional Standards Committee on April 30, 2004. Initially available at www.semi.org June 2004; to bepublished July 2004. Originally published December 1996. 1 Purpose1.1 Access to process data in equipment is crucial foreffective process monitoring and control in asemiconductor manufacturing facility. This standardaddresses the communication needs of semiconductorequipment and other factory objects, such as cellcontrollers or recipe servers, with respect to the timelycollection and reporting of such data.1.2 The purpose of this standard is to provide a generalpurpose set of event reporting services that may beoffered by equipment suppliers. This document may bereferenced, in whole or in part, by other standardsaddressing higher level application domains.1.3 The communications services defined here willenable standards based inter-operability of independentsystems. They shall allow application software to bedeveloped which can assume the existence of theseservices and allow software products to be developedwhich offer them. 2 Scope2.1 This standard is applicable to any stand-aloneequipment, cluster module, cluster tool, or cell ofautomation in a factory. As such it addresses eventreporting at all levels in the factory and equipmentcontrol hierarchy.2.2 This standard requires significant communicationand computational resources and is therefore notapplicable at or below the level of I/O distribution (e.g.,sensor bus) within the equipment.2.3 This standard covers the reporting of dataperiodically and/or in response to events. Reports mayalso be requested on demand.2.4 This standard presents a solution from the conceptsand behavior down to the messaging services. It doesnot define the messaging protocol.2.5 A messaging service includes the identification thata message shall be exchanged and definition of the datawhich is contained in that message. It does not includeinformation on the structure of the message, how thedata is represented within the message, or how themessage is exchanged. This additional information iscontained with the message protocol. The definedservices may be applied to multiple protocols. Information on the mapping of these services to specialprotocols (e.g., SECS II) are added as adjunctstandards.2.6 The services assume a communicationsenvironment in which a reliable connection has beenestablished between the user and the provider of theservices. Establishing, maintaining, and releasing aconnection is beyond the scope of this standard.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to addresssafety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establishappropriate safety and health practices and determinethe applicability of regulatory or other limitations priorto use. 3 Referenced Documents3.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E5  SEMI Equipment CommunicationsStandard 2 Message Content (SECS-II)SEMI E30  Generic Model for Communications andControl of SEMI Equipment (GEM)SEMI E38  Cluster Tool Module Communications(CTMC)SEMI E39  Object Services Standard: Concepts,Behavior, and ServicesSEMI E40  Standard for Processing Management NOTICE: Unless otherwise indicated, all documentscited shall be the latest published versions. 4 Terminology4.1 The following definitions are arranged inalphabetical order. Some terms are defined using termsdefined elsewhere within this section. Other terms maybe defined within SEMIs Compilation of Terms.4.1.1 attribute  a data item associated with an object.An attribute may be referenced by zero or more datareports.4.1.2 behavior  the manner in which somethingfunctions; how an object acts and reacts, in terms of itsstate changes and message passing.

&lt;!-- Page 12 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 2 4.1.3 collection event  an event that may be used toinitiate the collection and reporting of data. A collectionevent may trigger an event report. A collection eventmay also start or stop one or more trace reports.4.1.4 data report  a data report is a list of attributenames for a single object. Data reports may be pre-defined by a factory object or defined dynamically bythe service user.4.1.5 default object  the object assumed when noobject specifier is supplied.4.1.6 event  represents the occurrence of a change inthe condition of a system (e.g., lot complete,temperature over range).4.1.7 event report  a class of objects that hasinformation related to an event and can be linked touser defined data reports and can send messagescontaining this information to a service user.4.1.8 factory object  any identifiable object withinthe factory information and control architecture.Examples include equipment, a cluster process module,a cell controller, a recipe namespace server.4.1.9 object  defined in the Object Services (SEMIE39).4.1.10 object specifier  defined in the ObjectServices (SEMI E39).4.1.11 services  a set of closely related messages.4.1.12 service provider  a service provider is anapplication responsible for providing services to serviceusers.NOTE 1: There may be one or more service usersconcurrently accessing a single service provider. It is theresponsibility of the service provider to provide its servicestransparently to each service user.4.1.13 service user  a service user is any applicationthat uses the services.4.1.14 trace report  a class of objects which providesto a service user a means for collecting periodicreadings of selected attributes of a system.4.2 Data Types4.2.1 form  type of data: float, positive integer,unsigned integer, integer, enumerated, boolean, text,formatted text, structure, list, ordered list.4.2.2 float  a number represented by a mantissa andan exponent. It is used to represent numeric data whichis continuous in value.4.2.3 positive integer  May take the value of anypositive whole number. Messaging protocol mayimpose a limit on the range of possible values. 4.2.4 unsigned integer  May take the value of anypositive integer or zero. Messaging protocol mayimpose a limit on the range of possible values.4.2.5 integer  May take the value of any negative orunsigned number. Messaging protocol may impose alimit on the range of possible values.4.2.6 enumerated  May take on one of a limited setof possible values. These values may be given logicalnames, but they may be represented by any single-itemdata type.4.2.7 boolean  May take on one of two possiblevalues; TRUE or FALSE.4.2.8 Text  A text string. Messaging protocol mayimpose restrictions, such as length or ASCIIrepresentation.4.2.9 formatted text  a text string with an imposedformat. This could be by position, by use of specialcharacters, or both.4.2.10 structure  a complex structure consisting of aspecific set of items, of possibly mixed data types, in aspecific arrangement.4.2.11 list  set of one or more items that are all of thesame form (one of the above forms).4.2.12 ordered list  s list for which the order inwhich the items appear is significant. 5 Conventions5.1 Harel State Model  This document uses the HarelState Chart notation to describe the dynamic behaviorof the objects defined. An overview of this notation ispresented in an appendix of SEMI E30. The formaldefinition of this notation is presented in Science ofComputer Programming 8, Statecharts: A VisualFormalism for Complex Systems, by D. Harel, 1987.5.1.1 Transition tables are provided in conjunction withthe state diagrams to explicitly describe the nature ofeach state transition. A transition contains columns fortransition #, current state, trigger, new state, action(s).The trigger (column 3) for the transition occurs whilein the current state. The actions (column 5) includea combination of; 1) actions taken upon exit of thecurrent state, 2) actions taken upon entry of the newstate, and 3) actions taken which are most closelyassociated with the transition. No differentiation ismade.5.2 OMT Object Information Model  The objectmodels are presented using the Object ModelingTechnique developed by Rumbaugh, James, et al, inObject-Oriented Modeling and Design, Prentice Hall,Englewood Cliffs, NJ, ©1991. Overviews of this

&lt;!-- Page 13 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20043 notation are provided in an appendix of the ObjectServices SEMI E39.5.3 Object Attribute Representation  The objectinformation models for standardized objects will besupported by an attribute definition table with thefollowing column headings: Attribute Definition Rqmt Access FormThe formaltext name ofthe attribute Descriptionof theinformationcontained Y or N RO or RW (see below) 5.3.1 The access column uses RO (read only) or RW(read and write) to indicate the access that users ofobject services have to the attribute.5.3.2 A Y or N in the requirement (rqmt) columnindicates if this attribute must be supported in order tomeet fundamental compliance for the service.5.3.3 The form column is used to indicates the formatof the attribute. See Section 4.2 for definitions.5.4 Service Message Representation5.4.1 Service Resource Definition  The serviceresource definition table defines the specific set ofmessages for a given service group, as shown in thefollowing table: Service Type DescriptionMessage name N or R The intent of the service 5.4.1.1 Type can be either notification (N) or request(R). Notification messages are initiated by the serviceprovider. No response is expected. Request messagesare initiated by the service user. Request messages askfor data or for an operation to be performed. Requestmessages expect a specific response (no presumptionon the message content).5.4.2 Service Parameter Dictionary  Each parametershould relate to either attributes from the object modelor events of the dynamic model (Harel State Chart). Allparameters to the services are listed in a single table ordictionary. The column headings for this parameterdictionary are as follows: Parameter Description FormParameter X Data type A parameter 5.4.2.1 A row is provided in the table for eachparameter of the service. The first column contains the name of the parameter. This is followed by columnsdescribing the form and the contents of the parameter.5.4.2.2 The description column describes the meaningof the parameter and interrelationships with otherparameters.5.4.2.3 The form column is used to indicate the type ofdata contained in the parameter (see Section 4.2 fordefinitions) and the possible values it may take on.5.4.2.4 To prevent definition of numerous parametersnamed XxxList, this document adopts the conventionof referring to the list as (list of) Xxx. In this case,the definition of the parameter Xxx will be given, notof the list. Where a list is used in both the request andthe response, the list order in the request is retained inthe response. A list must contain at least one elementunless zero elements are specifically allowed.5.4.3 Service Message Definition  There is a table foreach service showing the parameter detail. The columnheadings for the service detail are as follows: Parameter Req/ Ind Rsp/ Cnf CommentParameter X (see below) (see below) A descriptionof the service 5.4.3.1 The columns labeled req/ind and rsp/cnf linkthe parameters to the direction of the message. Themessage sent by the initiator is called the request(req). The receiver terms the message the indication(ind). The receiver may then send a response (rsp),which the original sender terms the confirmation(cnf).5.4.3.2 The request (req/ind) and response (rsp/cnf)entries can take on the following values: M Mandatory parameter  Must be given a validvalue.C Conditional parameter  May be defined in somecircumstances and undefined in others. Whether avalue is given may be completely optional or maydepend on the value of another parameter.U User-defined parameter- The parameter is not used.= The entries M and C in the response can be modifiedwith (=) to indicate that the value in the response mustmatch the request. 6 Overview6.1 Event reporting provides a dynamic and flexiblemeans by which the service user can receivenotification of events and data relating to objectsdefined here and in other SEMI standards.

&lt;!-- Page 14 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 4 6.2 Figure 1 illustrates a simple event reportingsituation. ProviderUser Defined Configuration- Trace Reports- Data Reports- Links to Event ReportsProvider Defined Configuration- Trace Reports- Data Reports- Links to Event ReportsCollection Events & Data User Request Notification Figure 1Simple Event Reporting 6.3 Event and variable identifiers may be defined byanother standard with which equipment or an objectcomplies. In either case, the definitions must beincluded in the documentation from the supplier.6.4 The service user may define and access data reportsusing the event reporting request services. Data reportsare sampled and sent by the service provider using theevent reporting notification services.6.5 Data reports may be pre-defined by the supplier.Such reports cannot be deleted and their reportidentifiers may not be used for dynamically createdreports.6.6 Multiple Service Users  In a more complexsituation, several service users may requiresimultaneous access to the event reporting services(ERS). In this case, the service provider manages datareport definitions independently for each service user asshown in Figure 2. A copy of each pre-defined report ismade for each service user. Support for more than onesimultaneous service user is optional. ProviderCollection Events & DataProvider Defined Configuration User DefinedConfigurationProvider DefinedConfiguration Copy User DefinedConfigurationProvider DefinedConfiguration Copy User User Figure 2Multiple Service Users 6.7 Using Object Services  An event reportingservice user can create reports dynamically byaccessing attribute information using the object services(see SEMI E39) when they are provided (see Figure 3). User ObjectServicesProvider EventReportingProvider Collection Events and DataFigure 3Using Object Services 7 Concepts7.1 Objects and Identifiers  Much of the discussionand specification for event reporting services relies onan understanding of object technology and modelingtechniques. The use of object technology for ERSimplementations is not required. Further, it is notrequired that ERS implementations be compliant to theObject Services Standard (OSS). This standard doesspecifiy mechanisms by which ERS can take advantageof OSS when those services are provided.7.1.1 Events are associated with an object and data isstored in object attributes. To uniquely identify an eventor an attribute the object to which it relates must first beidentified.7.1.2 An object may be a physical entity such as stand-alone process equipment, a cluster tool or a clustermodule. An object may be an abstraction such as arecipe, a process job or a transfer job. An object may bedefined by the equipment supplier, or by a standardwith which the equipment complies. An example of acluster tool, containing process modules, is used in thissection as the service provider. This example is forillustration purposes only. The same concepts apply forall factory objects as defined above.7.1.3 Objects may be part of an object hierarchy orcontained in other objects. The default object is theobject which provides the service connection. In thecase for batch processing equipment which is compliantto GEM, SEMI E30, the connection to the host isprovided by the equipment and the equipment is thedefault object. Also, a cluster controller would be thedefault object of equipment containing processmodules. However, from the point of view of thecluster controller, each connection to the service

&lt;!-- Page 15 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20045 providers in each connected module would be thedefault object. For example, the processingmanagement service of PM:ETCH would be a defaultobject for that module connection. But, the clustercontroller would have differernt default objects on eachof its other service connections.7.1.4 An object specifier, (see SEMI E39), identifies anobject within the scope of the service provider. Anobject specifier consists of one or more object type andobject instance identifier pairs. For example,PM:ETCH&gt; might be the object specifier of a processmodule (type=PM, identifier=ETCH) within a clustertool. If the object specifier is omitted, then the defaultobject is assumed.7.1.5 Objects are considered local to the serviceprovider even if they exist on a remote module. Thatmeans the service provider is responsible for detectingevents and accessing data from those objects in a timelymanner, by whatever means, to provide the specifiedservices. 7.1.6 Equipment which implements OSS-compliantevent reporting services allows the service user toreference equipment components by an object specifier;for example, PM:ETCH&gt;MFC:CCL4.7.2 Event Report Object Model  Figure 4 shows theobjects, attributes (variables), and relationshipsinvolved in event reporting. The notation used isdefined in Section 5. The diagram illustrates therelationships between the services messages andattributes (variables). The objects and their attributesare defined Section 8. Only the trace, data report,collection event, and data source objects attributes andbehaviors are standardized in that section. Note that thismodel presents a view of event reporting services fromthe perspective a single user. It is optional for theservice provider to support simultaneous access frommultiple service users. But for that option the providershall present this view to each user independently. Figure 4Event Report Object Model

&lt;!-- Page 16 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 6 Figure 5Trace Object Information Model 7.2.1 Service Provider Object  The service provideris responsible for compiling report samples accordingto each service user setup. It detects collection events,provides trace timing and accesses the value of datasource object attributes (variables) in order to compilethe data reports. ERS does not specify the attributes orbehavior of this object. It is included in the event reportobject model to provide context for other objects withinERS.7.2.2 Service User Object  The service user isresponsible for configuring its own event reportingsetup and receives reports from the service provideraccording to that setup. ERS does not specify theattributes or behavior of this object. It is included in theevent report object model to provide context for otherobjects within ERS. However, the service user objectshall be able to receive the event report send and tracereport send messages from the service provider.7.2.3 Collection Event Object  This object type orclass is responsible to provide all the collection eventidentifiers for which event reports can be generated.Other factory services and objects may provide eventnotification messages which are important in thecontext of a service or functionality that they provide.But, in general, these notifications do not providemechanisms to report information beyond their domainboundaries. For example, Processing Management,SEMI E40, includes an event notification for processcomplete (PRJobAlert (Milestone)). In order to collectdata associated with this event, it must be known tothe collection event object type. When it is known bythe collection event object, then event reports can begenerated using data or attributes from the data sourceswhich are known by the event reporting service provider. A data source could provide information onprocess chamber pressure and temperature, which areattributes or variables important to the process butwhich are not known to the processing managementservice.7.2.4 Event and Data Source Objects  The use of theevent source and data source objects provides extensivecapability to access the attributes of objects in adistributed environment. Where the event servicesprovider has a domain which extends over multipleresources, such as a cell controller for a furnace bay ora cluster tool controller, these objects provide anunambiguous mechanism for addressing the data thatthe service user wishes to access.7.2.4.1 The event and data source objects are to theevent reporting services what directory object is in afile system of a computers operating system. Theyshould be thought of as containers of information whichprovide pointers (or names) of objects that are theactual sources of events or data.7.2.4.2 The event source object is not directlyaccessible to the service user. Knowledge of events andevent sources can be accumulated by interrogation ofthe collection event object using OSS.7.2.4.3 Collection event identifiers shall be determinedby either of two possible methods. One, the equipmentsupplier may define and supply with the equipment alist of collection event IDs (identifiers). Two, theequipments collection event object can be interrogatedwith object services requests for collection eventsources and identifiers. For example, using the secondmethod, one could use object services to ask thecollection event object for a list of collection eventsources, which might include objects such asPM:Etch&gt;MFC:CCL4 or TM&gt;Aligner. Then usingOSS, the collection event object can be queried forevents associated with these sources. For the MFC a listof events might include preslow, overlimit,valvemax, etc.7.2.5 Data Report Object  A data report defines thevariables (or attributes) of a specific object (datasource) which are to be sampled. Data reports are eitherpre-defined or defined dynamically by the service user.A data report sample is a set of data containing thevalues of the variables defined for the data report. Tosample a data report means that the current values ofthe variables at their data source object should berecorded. Data reports may be sampled and sent eitherwith an event report and/or with a trace report. Theservice user may request: To sample an individual data report. Create a data report.

&lt;!-- Page 17 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20047  Delete a data report.7.2.6 Event Report  Event reports may be sent asmessages to the service user whenever the associatedcollection event occurs. The collection event object isthe source of the event report message. Event reportingis initially disabled. If the data to be sent with an eventreport has more than one data source, then there mustbe at least one data report for each data source to beincluded in the event report link definition. The serviceuser may request: Event reporting to be enabled. Event reporting to be disabled. One or more data reports to be to linked (includedin) the event report.7.2.7 Trace Report  Trace reports are messageswhich are sent to the service user periodically. Thetrace report will contain the value(s) of the data item(s)specified in the data report(s) referred to by the traceobject which is the source of the trace report.7.2.7.1 The trace object contains the description ofwhat to include in the trace report and trace objects areeither pre-defined or defined dynamically by the serviceuser. The service user may request: Trace reporting to be enabled. Trace reporting to be disabled. One or more trace reports to be reset at any time totheir initial state. One or more trace reports to be deleted at any time.7.2.7.2 When the enabled attribute of the trace object isset, then trace reporting may be started or in response toa start event. When the trace reporting starts, the samplecount is reset to zero. A trace report may be stoppedwhen a certain number of samples have been reportedor when a stop event occurs.7.2.7.3 The service user may specify a trace object tobe automatically deleted once it has been stopped bywhichever mechanism. Otherwise, the trace reportingsimply stops. If no start event is defined, then the traceis restarted immediately. Otherwise, the next start eventwill restart the trace. Disabling or deleting a trace reportstops reporting immediately.7.3 Scenarios  The communications involved inevent reporting are introduced below in the form ofsome representative scenarios. The full behavior andmessage set are covered in Sections 8.2 and 8.3respectively.7.3.1 Event Reporting  Figure 6 shows a scenario inwhich a data report is created by the service user and linked to an event report. Event reporting is thenenabled. Subsequently, an event report is sent with thedata reports attached whenever the collection eventoccurs. The service user then disables event reporting,preventing subsequent collection events from triggeringthe report. Data reports and links to event reports maybe pre-defined by the equipment in which case theDataReportCreate and LinkCreate messages areomitted.EQUIPMENTService ProviderFACTORYService User Event reportdisabled ProcessingcompleteCompile datareport and sendwith event report Enables anevent report Disablesevent report Receivesevent reports Event reportenabled Defines adata report Event reportdisabledData reportcreatedLinksdata report toan event reportData reportlinkedEventReportEnable EventReportSend EventReportDisable DataReportCreate LinkCreate Figure 6Event Reporting Scenario 7.3.2 Trace Reporting  Figure 7 shows a scenario inwhich a trace object is created with enabled andAutoDelete both set to TRUE. Since the trace object isenabled and there is no start event defined the datareports assigned to the trace object are sampled and sentimmediately as a trace report message. The trace objecttimer is started and the sample counter set to zero. Eachtime the sample period elapses thereafter, a new tracereport is sent, and the sample counter incremented.When the sample counter reaches the total samplesparameter, then the trace report is automaticallydeleted.EQUIPMENTService ProviderFACTORYService User First report sentimmediatelySample PeriodElapsedSample PeriodElapsedTotal SamplesreachedTrace reportauto deleted Creates atrace report Receivestrace reports Trace reportcreatedTraceReportCreate TraceReportSendTraceReportSendTraceReportSend Figure 7Trace Reporting Scenario

&lt;!-- Page 18 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 8 7.3.3 Trace Reporting with Event Control  Figure 8 shows a scenario in which a trace object is created withenabled and AutoDelete both set to FALSE. There is also a start event (ProcessingStarted) and a stop event(ProcessingComplete) defined. When the start event occurs, the data reports assigned to the trace are sampled andsent, the trace timer is started and the sample counter set to zero. Each time the sample period elapses thereafter, areport is sent and the sample counter incremented. Since a total samples parameter was not specified, the trace reportstops only when the stop event occurs. Once the stop event has occurred, the service user disables the trace reportpreventing it from restarting when the next start event occurs. EQUIPMENTService ProviderFACTORYSevice User ProcessingstartedSample PeriodElapsedSample PeriodElapsedProcessingcompleteWill no longerrespond toStartEvent Creates atrace report Receivestrace reports Disablestrace report Will respond toStartEventEnablestrace report Trace reportcreated but willnot respondto StartEventTraceReportCreate TraceReportSendTraceReportSendTraceReportSend TraceReportSend TraceReportDisable TraceReportEnable Figure 8Trace Reporting with Event Control

&lt;!-- Page 19 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20049 7.3.4 Event Reporting with Non-predefined CollectionEvent Object  Additional capabilities of SEMI E39 (OSS)give Event Reporting standard more flexibility. For example, CollectionEvent objects can be created whileequipment is running if the equipment has been installed the capability. If event sources are dynamically generatedas process job, CollectionEvent objects must be created after the source is generated. If a user is not interested insuch source, this capability is not required. However, if the user needs to get event report for such source, thecapability is useful. This document doesnt recommend nor suppress that but its depending on users. Create(CollectionEvent object)DatReportCreate (x n) FACTORY(Service User)Creates aCollectionEvent objectA CollectionEventobject is created.Returns object ID EQUIPMENT(Service Provider) DataReport object(s)is(are) created.Returns object IDCreates DataReportobject(s)CollectionEventLink (x n) DataReport object(s)is(are) linked.Links DataReportobject(s)Set Attribute(Enabled=TRUE)CollectionEventobject is Enabled.EnablesCollectionEventEventReportSend Event happens.Linked DataReport(s)value(s) are acquiredCorrespondingProcedure begins EventReportSend Event happens.Linked DataReport(s)value(s) are acquiredCorrespondingProcedure begins CollectionEventobject is Disabled.DisablesCollectionEventCollectionEventUnlink (x n) DataReport object(s)is(are) unlinked.Unlinks DataReportobject(s)CollectionEventLink (x n) DataReport object(s)is(are) linked.Links DataReportobject(s)CollectionEventobject is Enabled.EnablesCollectionEventEventReportSend Event happens.Linked DataReport(s)value(s) are acquiredCorrespondingProcedure begins Set Attribute(Enabled=FALSE) Set Attribute(Enabled=TRUE) Figure 9Non-predefined Collection Event Scenario8 Specification8.1 Object Definitions8.1.1 Collection Event Object  A collection event object generates an event report each time it is triggered by acollection event from an event source. An event report contains the data samples from zero or more data reports towhich it is linked by the collection event object.Table 1 Collection Event Object Attribute Definitions Attribute Name Definition Rqmt Access FormObjType Specification of the Object Type of Collection Event. Y RO Text =COLLEVENTObjID Object Identifier, within the scope of the event source object, for theCollection Event which is the trigger for the generation of an eventreport. Y RO Text

&lt;!-- Page 20 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 10 Attribute Name Definition Rqmt Access FormEventSource The object specifier which is the source of the event, see Section 7.1and SEMI E39 (Object Services Standard).N RO Formatted Text DataReportList Ordered list of data report object identifiers (text) to be sampled andsent with the event report.Y RO List Enabled If this flag is cleared or false, then event reports will not be generatedand sent when the associated Collection Event is detected.Y RW Boolean 8.1.2 Data Report Object  The data report is part of the event reporting setup. It references zero or more attributesof a data source object and may be linked to zero or more event reports or trace reports. Table 2 Data Report Object Attribute Definitions Attribute Name Definition Rqmt Access FormObjType Specification of the Object Type of Data Report. Y RO Text = DATARPTObjID The object identifier of a pre-defined data report or one defineddynamically by the service user. ReportIDs are unique foreachservice user. Y RO Text DataSource The object specifier of the object which has the attributes to bereported, see Section 7.1.N RO Formatted Text AttrList An ordered list of attribute names from the Data Source objectwhich will be sampled for inclusion in the data report.Y RW List 8.1.3 Trace Object  The trace object generates trace reports based on the settings of its attributes. Trace objectactivities may be started and stopped by a collection event and may refer to one or more data reports.Table 3 Trace Object Attribute Definitions Attribute Name Definition Rqmt Access FormObjType Specification of the Object Type. Y RO Text = TRACEObjID The identifier of a Trace Object. Trace reports contain this parameterto be used for reference purposes.Y RO Text Enabled If this flag is cleared or false, then trace reports will not be generatedand sent.Y RW Boolean DataReportList Ordered list of data report object identifiers (text) to be sampled andsent with trace report.Y RO List SamplePeriod The time delay between samples in seconds. Resolution may be infractions of a second and should be specified by the service provider.The resolution available may also vary depending on the Data Source. Y RO Float TotalSamples The number of samples to be taken before trace reporting stopsautomatically.N RO Positive Integer GroupSize The number of samples taken before the report is sent to the serviceuser.N RO Positive Integer StartEventSource The object specifier of the object which is the source of the eventwhich starts the trace reporting.N RO Formatted Text StartEventID The event within the event source object which starts the tracereporting.N RO Text StopEventSource The object specifier of the object which is the source of the eventwhich stops the trace reporting.N RO Formatted Text StopEventID The event within the event source object which stops the tracereporting.N RO Text AutoDelete Specifies if trace report automatically deletes itself when its reportingcycle is complete.N RO Boolean

&lt;!-- Page 21 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 200411 Attribute Name Definition Rqmt Access FormReportChangeOnly If TRUE, then only those data reports linked to the trace report whichhave changed since the last sample will be sent with the trace report.Otherwise, all data reports will be sent with the trace report. N RO Boolean 8.1.4 Data Source Object  The data source is an entity, accessible to the service provider, which contains data(attributes) that may be of interest to the service user. The event reporting service can be composed of one or moredata sources. In the case of only one data source, the use of its identifier in messages can be dropped. In this case,the data source is the default object. The attributes of a data source may be referenced by zero or more data reports. Table 4 Data Source Object Attribute Definitions Attribute Name Definition Rqmt Access FormObjType The specification of the name for object type of "Data Source. N RO Text = DATASRCObjID The identifier of a Data Source Object. (This identifier is used in theobject specifier when defining Data Report.)N RO Text AttrList A list of the data source object attribute names. Names from this listmay be used when defining a data report.Y RO List 8.1.5 Event Source Object  This object represents components within a system that generate collection events.The service provider supplies mechanisms such that the when collection events are generated by the event source,then the collection event object, if enabled, will be triggered to generate an event report. ERS does not specify theattributes or behavior of the event source object. It is included in the event report object model to provide context forother objects within ERS.8.2 Object Behaviors  This section specifies the behavior of the three objects in the information model whichhave standardized behaviors. The message detail for the service is addressed in a later section. Message flowdiagrams presented in the previous section are useful to show simple situations. The data report, event report andtrace report state models presented in this section provide the information necessary to extrapolate the message flowdiagrams for all situations within the scope of this standard.8.2.1 Event Reporting State Models  The behavior required for event reporting is fully specified by the serviceprovider state model. All required service user behavior is inferred by this model. Figure 10Collection Event Object State Diagram 8.2.1.1 Figure 10 shows the state diagram for a collection event object. The Harel State Model Notation used isdescribed in Section 5.

&lt;!-- Page 22 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 12 Table 5 Collection Event Object State DefinitionsState DefinitionCREATED Each collection event is associated with a unique Collection Event ID.ENABLED The Service User will be notified by the sending of an event report when the collection event occurs.DISABLED Event reports will not be sent to the Service User.WAITFOREVENT The object is waiting for its associated Collection Event to occur.REPORT Send an Event Report to a Service User, sample Data Reports which have been linked.notExist User view of Collection Event Objects prior to connection (establishment of communications). Table 6 Event Report Transition Table# Current State Trigger New State Action(s)1 Service userestablishes connection.CREATED andENABLED orDISABLED A Collection Event Object is created on behalf of theservice user for every collection event. The eventreporting Enable attribute setting is conditional. It mayget its value from stored configuration information.2 DISABLED Enable attribute set toTRUEENABLED Event reporting is enabled for a specific collection event. 3 ENABLED Enable attribute set toFALSEDISABLED Event reporting is disabled for a specific collection event. 4 WAITFOREVENT Collection EventoccursREPORT Sample linked data reports. Send event report with linkeddata reports.5 REPORT Reporting Complete WAITFOREVENT The object waits for the collection event. 8.2.2 Data Report Object State Model  Each data report shall follow the transitions as specified in Figure 11.Multiple instances of data report are managed by the event services. There are two basic types of data reports; pre-defined and user defined. Figure 11Data Report Object State Chart Table 7 Data Report Object State Definitions State DefinitionnotExist The state from which the service provider creates reports.NOTE: Some reports may be predefined, that is, they are not created by a user request.IDLE Reports are sampled and generated only when requested from an external source such as the Trace or EventReport object or the Service User directly.CREATED This is the super-state of Idle and Report. Variables and/or attributes to be sampled are defined.REPORT The variables or attributes specified in the Data Report Object are sampled and then sent to the report requestor.

&lt;!-- Page 23 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 200413 Table 8 Data Report State Transition# Current State Trigger New State Action(s)1 CreateRequest CREATED and IDLE New ReportID is defined. Wait for an actionableevent.2 IDLE ReportRequest REPORT Sample data in report definition.3 REPORT SamplingComplete IDLE Send data to report requestor.4 IDLE DeleteRequest and not pre-defined notExists ReportID is no longer valid. 8.2.3 Trace Object State Model  Figure 12 shows the state diagram for a trace object. The Harel State ModelNotation used is described Section 5. The state transition table is shown in Table 10. Figure 12Trace Object State DiagramTable 9 Trace Object State DefinitionsState DefinitionCREATED The Trace Object is created and ready to be accessed.DISABLED Trace report is created but will not be sampled or sent.ENABLED Trace object may begin generation of trace reports. See sub-states IDLE and ACTIVE.IDLE Trace reports are not being generated.ACTIVE The trace reports are being generated and sent periodically. Table 10 Trace Object State Transition Table # CurrentStateTrigger New State Action(s) 1 (deleted) Trace Object Create (condition) A Trace Object is created with Report ID, Enabled,Group Size, Total Samples, Sample Period, Start Event,Stop Event, and Auto Delete parameters.2 (condition) Enabled was initially FALSE. DISABLED Trace reporting is disabled.3 (condition) Enabled was initially TRUE. ENABLED Trace reporting is enabled.4 ENABLED Trace Report Disable DISABLED Trace reporting is disabled.5 DISABLED Trace Report Enable ENABLED Trace reporting is enabled.

&lt;!-- Page 24 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 14 # CurrentStateTrigger New State Action(s) 6 IDLE Start Event is not defined or StartEvent is defined and occurs.ACTIVE Sample Data Reports and send. Start sample timer.Reset sample counter. Reset group counter. Wait forsample timer to elapse.7 ACTIVE Sample period elapses. ACTIVE Sample data reports into a trace report. If group samplecounter equals group size, then send the trace report andreset group counter. Then prepare to generate the nexttrace report. Start sample time and wait for it to elapse.8 ACTIVE Stop Event is defined and occurs orTotal Samples &gt; 0 and sample counterequals Total Samples. (condition) Sample data reports into a trace report. Send the tracereport. 9 (condition) Auto Delete is FALSE IDLE (none)10 (condition) Auto Delete is TRUE (deleted) Delete Trace Object.11 CREATED Event Report Reset (condition) Reset Trace Object state back to initial state when it wasfirst created.12 CREATED Event Report Delete (deleted) Delete Trace Object. 8.3 Messaging Services Detail  This section specifies the messages required to implement the event reportingservice. The messages were introduced in Section 7.3.1. These services are independent of the messaging protocolused.The specification includes a list of required messages, the definition of the parameters contained within themessages, and data type of the parameters. Not defined here is the internal structure of the actual messages astransferred, including order of the parameters and how various data structures and data types are represented.The service message notation used in the tables below is described in the Conventions, Section 5.4.8.3.1 Service ListTable 11 Event Reporting Services Service Type DescriptionEvent ReportRequestR Requests the specified event report, and the data reports linked to it, to be sampled and returned tothe service user.Event Report Send N Notifies the service user of the occurrence of an event with a time stamp indicating when the eventoccurred. Any data reports linked to the event report are sampled and attached to the event reportsent to the service user.Data Report Create R Creates a data report which defines a set of attributes of an object to be reported.Data Report Delete R Deletes one or more data report definitions.Data Report Request R Requests the specified data report to be sampled and returned to the service user.Collection EventLinkR Request a Collection Event Object to link a Data Report. All Data Reports linked to an enabledCollection Event Object are sampled and sent with the event report when the collection eventoccurs.Collection EventUnlinkR Unlinks one or more Data Reports from the Collection Event Object. Trace Create R Creates a trace object which defines the sample period, group size, start and stop events, autodelete, report change only, and the initial state (enabled or disabled).Trace Delete R Deletes one or more trace object definitions.Trace ReportRequestR Requests that the data reports assigned to the trace report be sampled and returned to the serviceuser.Trace Report Send N Notifies the service user of trace report samples taken. Group size samples are taken before theservice user is notified. After notifying the service user, the group counter is reset to zero. A tracereport sample is taken either when the start event occurs or the sample period elapses.

&lt;!-- Page 25 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 200415 Service Type DescriptionTrace Report Reset R Resets one or more trace objects back to their initial state when created regardless of the currentstate of the trace object. All trace objects may be reset at once providing a simple way to re-establish the event reporting setup after modifications have been made. 8.3.2 Use Object Services  Attributes of the standardized objects listed in Table 12: SEMI E39 shall be accessedby using the GetAttr and SetAttr messages as defined in SEMI E39.Table 12 SEMI E39 Access Object Attribute CommentCollection Event Enabled When set to TRUE, a Collection Event Report will be sampled and sent when the CollectionEvent occurs. When FALSE, Collection Event Reports are not sampled and sent.Trace Enabled When set to TRUE, a Trace Report will be sampled and as described by the Trace Reportdefinition. When FALSE, Trace Reports are not sampled and sent.Data Source AttrList Use GetAttr to get the names of the attributes of a data source. These names can be used in theData Report Create message.Data Report AttrList Use GetAttr and SetAttr to change the variables included in a data report definition. 8.3.3 Parameter DictionaryTable 13 Event Reporting Parameters Parameter Definition FormEvtSrcSpec The object specifier of the Event Source Object. Formatted textCollEventID References the Object Identifier of the collection event, within the scope of theevent source object, that triggers an event report to be sent.Text Enabled Specifies whether an Event or Trace Report is enabled. Boolean:TRUE  SuccessfulFASLE  UnsuccessfulDatSrcSpec The object specifier of the data source object. Formatted text(list of) AttrName An ordered list of attribute names from the data source object which specify thesamples to be included in a data report. Maximum must be documented bysupplier. Text ReportID References the Object Identifier of a data report, either pre-defined by theservice provider or specified by the service user.Text TraceID References the Object Identifier of a trace object specified by the service user. Text(list of) ReportID A list of data reports to be linked to a trace. Maximum must be documented bysupplier.Text SamplePeriod The time delay between samples. Minimum and maximum must bedocumented by supplier.Float TotalSamples The number of samples to be taken before trace data reporting stopsautomatically.Positive Integer GroupSize The number of trace report samples made before the report is sent to theservice user. Maximum group size must be documented by supplier.Positive Integer StartEvtSrcSpec The object which is the source of the event which starts the trace reporting. TextStartEventID The Collection Event Object Identifier within the event source object whichstarts the trace reporting.Text StopEvtSrcSpec The object which is the source of the event which stops the trace reporting. TextStopEventID The Collection Event Object Identifier within the event source object whichstops the trace reporting.Text AutoDelete Specifies if trace report automatically deletes itself when its reporting cycle iscomplete.Boolean:TRUE  SuccessfulFASLE  Unsuccessful

&lt;!-- Page 26 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 16 Parameter Definition FormReportChangeOnly If TRUE, then only data reports linked to the trace object which have changedsince the last sample will be sent with the trace report. Otherwise, all datareports will be sent with the trace report. Boolean:TRUE  SuccessfulFASLE  Unsuccessful(list of)DataReportSampleA list of data reports. Each data report sample contains the values of thevariables specified in the data report at the time at which the sample was taken(see TimeStamp). Structure (list of)TraceReportSampleTrace report data. Each trace report contains a set of data report samples takenat a single point in time. This parameter is used when several trace reportsamples are made before notifying the service user (see Group Size). Structure ERAck Indicates whether the activity was successful. Boolean:TRUE  SuccessfulFALSE - UnsuccessfulErrorCode Identifies errors that may arise. Enumerated:Unknown eventUnknown attributeUnknown data reportDuplicate Report IDData report not linkedUnknown trace reportDuplicate Trace IDCannot delete predefinedToo many data reportsSample period out of rangeGroup size too large textErrorText Text in support of Error code. TextERStatus Reports the acceptance or rejection of a requested operation. Structure Composed of:ERAck (list of)StatusStatus Reports any errors found. Structure Composed of:ErrorCodeErrorText Table 14 Data Report Sample Parameter DetailParameter Definition FormReportID Unique identifier of a data report. TextTimeStamp Records time at which report sample values were recorded. Formatted text:YYYMMDDhhmmsscc(list of) AttributeValue An ordered list of attribute values that match the (list of) AttrName in thedata report.(depends on attribute) Table 15 Trace Report Sample Parameter DetailParameter Definition Form(list of) DataReportSample Samples of data reports assigned to the trace report. Structure

&lt;!-- Page 27 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 200417 8.3.4 Service Detail8.3.4.1 Event Report Request  When the event object receives this message, it immediately generates and sendsan event report to the service user.Table 16 Event Report Request Service DetailParameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommentEvtSrcSpec C C(=) Source object for requested event report. If omitted, then the default object isassumed.CollEventID M M(=) Identifies requested Event Report. If not recognized, then the error codeunknown event is returned.TimeStamp - C Time at which request was received. Parameter is omitted if Event ID is notrecognized.(list of)DataReportSample - C Samples of data reports linked to the event. Parameter is omitted if Event IDis not recognized.ERStatus - C Possible errors:Unknown event 8.3.4.2 Event Report Send  This is a notification message to the service user. It contains the event report for thecollection event which has triggered this action.Table 17 Event Report Send Service DetailParameter Req/Ind CommentEvtSrcSpec C Source object for event report to be sent. If omitted, then the default object is assumed.CollEventID M Event Report being sent.TimeStamp M Time at which Collection Event occurred.(list of)DataReportSample M Samples of data reports linked to the event. An empty list can be sent by the serviceprvider when there are no data reports linked to the Collection Event. 8.3.4.3 Data Report CreateTable 18 Data Report Create Service Detail Parameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommentDatSrcSpec C - Source object for data report to be created. If omitted, then the default object isassumed.AttrList M - Attributes of data source object to be included in data report. If an AttrName is notrecognized, then the error code unknown attribute is returned.ReportID C M(=) If ReportID is not specified in the request, then the provider will return a uniqueID to the user. If the user specifies ReportID, then the user must be responsible formaking it unique, otherwise, the ReportID already identifies a Data Report, thenthat Report definition will be overwritten.ErrorCode - C Possible errors:Unknown Data SourceUnknown Attribute

&lt;!-- Page 28 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 18 8.3.4.4 Data Report DeleteTable 19 Data Report Delete Service DetailParameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf Comment(list of) Report ID C C Identifies data report(s) to be deleted. If data report ispre-defined, then the errorcode Cannot delete pre-defined is returned. If a ReportID is not recognized, thenthe error code unknown data report is returned. If parameter is omitted in therequest, then all data reports are deleted. In all cases, the (list of) ReportID that aredeleted, if any, is returned in the response.ERStatus - C ERAck is set to FALSE if any requested ReportID cannot be deleted.ErrorCodes:Unknown data reportCannot delete predefinedErrorText shall be set to the ReportID of reports which could not be deleted. 8.3.4.5 Data Report Request  Message asking the service provider to sample the data report and send the resultingreport.Table 20 Data Report Request Service DetailParameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommentReportID M C(=) Identifies requested Data Report to sample. If Report ID is not recognized then theerror code unknown data report is returned. Parameter is omitted in theresponse when the ReportID is recognized by the service provider.DataReportSample - Parameter is omitted if ReportID is not recognized.ERAck - C In the case where no Data Report can be returned then this value is returned set toFALSE. This informs the service requestor that the message was received but thatfor some reason, the report could not be sampled. The most likely reason is theReportID was not recognized. 8.3.4.6 Collection Event LinkTable 21 Collection Event Link Service Detail Parameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommentEvtSrcSpec C C(=) Source object for event report to be linked. If omitted, then the default object isassumed.CollEventID M M(=) Identifies Collection Event Object to be linked. If CollEventID is not recognized,then the error code unknown event is returned. This error takes precedence overother errors.(list of ) ReportID M - Identifies Data Report(s) to be linked to an Event Report for this Collection EventObject. If ReportID is not recognized, then the error code unknown data reportis returned.ERStatus - C ERAck is set to FALSE if any ReportID cannot be linked.ErrorCodes:Unknown eventUnknown data reportErrorText shall be set to the ReportID of reports which could not be linked.

&lt;!-- Page 29 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 200419 8.3.4.7 Collection Event UnlinkTable 22 Collection Event Unlink Service DetailParameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommentEvtSrcSpec C C(=) Source object for event report to be unlinked. If omitted, then the default object isassumed.CollEventID M M(=) Identifies Collection Event to be unlinked. If the ID is not recognized, then the errorcode unknown event is returned. This error takes precedence over other errors.(list of) ReportID M - Identifies data report to be unlinked. If link is pre-defined, then the error codeCannot delete predefined is returned. If ReportID is not recognized, then the errorcode unknown data report is returned. If data report is not linked to the specifiedevent, then the error code data report not linked is returned.ERStatus - C ERAck is set to FALSE if any ReportID cannot be unlinked.ErrorCodes:Unknown eventUnknown data reportData report not linkedCannot delete predefinedErrorText shall be set to the ReportID of reports which could not be unlinked. 8.3.4.8 Trace CreateTable 23 Trace Create Service Detail Parameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommentTraceID C M(=) Identifier of Trace Object to be created. The service user can be responsible for theuniqueness of the Trace ID. If duplicate ID is used, then the current Trace Objectdefinition overwritten. If omitted in the request, then the Service Provider willgenerate a unique identifer.Enabled M - If TRUE, then the initial state of trace report is enabled and will start reporting whenthe next Start Event occurs, if one is defined, or immediately otherwise.(list of) ReportID M - Data reports to be linked to trace report.SamplePeriod M - A Sample Period outside the range supported by the service provider will return theerror code Sample period out of range.TotalSamples C - If this is equal to zero or is omitted, then the trace reporting will continue until it isstopped by some other means (i.e., by Stop Event, by Trace Report Disable or byTrace Report Delete).GroupSize C - If this is omitted, then every sample is immediately reported.StartEvtSrcSpec C - The object which is the source of the event which starts the trace reporting. Ifomitted, then the default object is assumed.StartEventID C - The event within the event source object which starts the trace reporting. If this isomitted, then trace reporting begins as soon as it is enabled.StopEvtSrcSpec C - The object which is the source of the event which stops the trace reporting. Ifomitted, then the default is assumed.StopEventID C - The event within the event source object which stops the trace reporting. If this isomitted, then trace reporting must be stopped by some other means (i.e., by TotalSamples, or by Trace Report Delete).AutoDelete C - If this is omitted, then AutoDelete is assumed to be TRUE.ReportChangeOnly C - If this is omitted, then ReportChangeOnly is assumed to be FALSE.ErrorCode - C Possible errors:Duplicate trace IDToo many data reportsSample period out or rangeGroup size too largeUnknown event

&lt;!-- Page 30 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 20 8.3.4.9 Trace DeleteTable 24 Trace Delete Service DetailParameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf Comment(list of) Trace ID C C Identifies Trace Object(s) to be deleted. If a Trace Object ispre-defined, then theerror code Cannot delete predefined is returned. If a TraceID is not recognized,then the error code unknown trace report is returned. If parameter is omitted in therequest, then all trace reports are deleted. In all cases, the (list of) Trace ID that aredeleted, is returned in the response.ERStatus - C ERAck is set to false if any requested TraceID cannot be deleted.ErrorCodes:Unknown trace reportCannot delete predefinedErrorText shall be set to the TraceID of reports which could not be deleted. 8.3.4.10 Trace Report Request  Request the data reports specified by the trace object ID be sampled and sent tothe service user.Table 25 Trace Report Request Service DetailParameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf CommentTraceID M M(=) Identifies requested trace report.TimeStamp - C Time at which request was serviced and data report samples taken. Parameter isomitted if Trace ID is not recognized.(list of)DataReportSample- C Samples of data reports assigned to the trace report. Parameter is omitted if Trace IDis not recognized.ERAck - C If the Data Report Samples cannot be sent, then this item shall be returned with itsBoolean value set to false. The most likely cause of this would be that the TraceIDwas undefined. 8.3.4.11 Trace Report Send  The notification message sent by the service provider to the service user when thetrace object has prepared a trace report according to its definition.Table 26 Trace Report Send Service DetailParameter Req/Ind CommentTraceID M Identifies trace report.(list of) TraceReportSample M Number of samples in list is determined by Group Size parameter in TraceReportCreate. 8.3.4.12 Trace Object ResetTable 27 Trace Reset Service Detail Parameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf Comment(list of) TraceID C M Identifies trace report(s) to be reset. If a Trace ID is not recognized, then the errorcode unknown trace report is returned. If parameter is omitted in the request, thenall trace reports are reset. In all cases, the (list of) TraceID that are reset is returned inthe response.ERStatus - C ERAck is set to false if any requested TraceID cannot be reset.ErrorCodes:Unknown trace reportErrorText shall be set to the TraceID of reports which could not be reset.

&lt;!-- Page 31 --&gt;

SEMI E53-0704 © SEMI 1996, 200421 NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standards set forth herein forany particular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturers instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature respecting any materials mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility that compliance with this standard may require use of copyrightedmaterial or of an invention covered by patent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMI takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any item mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 32 --&gt;

SEMI E53.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20041 SEMI E53.1-0704SECS-II SUPPORT FOR EVENT REPORTING STANDARD This standard was technically approved by the Global Information & Control Committee and is the directresponsibility of the Japanese Information & Control Committee. Current edition approved by the JapaneseRegional Standards Committee on April 30, 2004. Initially available at www.semi.org June 2004; to bepublished July 2004. Originally published December 1996.1 Purpose1.1 This document maps the services and data of itsprime document, SEMI E53, to SECS-II streams andfunctions and data definitions. 2 Scope2.1 This is the standard way to implement the EventReporting, which provides event-based reporting usingthe SECS-II message format.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to addresssafety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establishappropriate safety and health practices and determinethe applicability of regulatory or other limitations priorto use. 3 Referenced Standards3.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E5  SEMI Equipment CommunicationsStandard 2 Message Content (SECS-II)SEMI E39  Object Services Standard: Concepts,Behavior, and ServicesSEMI E39.1  SECS-II Protocol for Object ServicesStandard (OSS)SEMI E53  Event Reporting NOTICE: Unless otherwise indicated, all documentscited shall be the latest published versions. 4 TerminologyNone. 5 Mapping of Event Reporting MessagesTable 1 Event Messages MappingService Message Name Stream, Function SECS-II NameEvent Report Send S6F11,F12,F13,F14 Event Report Send/AcknowledgeAnnotated Event Report Send/ AcknowledgeEvent Report Request S6F15,F16 Event Report Request/DataData Report Request S6F19,F20 Individual Report Request/DataCollection Event Link Request S17F9,F10 Collection Event Link Request/AcknowledgeCollection Event Unlink Request S17F11,F12 Collection Event Unlink Request/AcknowledgeData Report Create S17F1,F2 Data Report Create Request/AcknowledgeData Report Delete Request S17F3,F4 Data Report Delete Request/AcknowledgeTrace Create Request S17F5,F6 Trace Create Request/AcknowledgeTrace Delete Request S17F7,F8 Trace Delete Request/AcknowledgeTrace Report Send S6F27,F28 Trace Report Send/ AcknowledgeTrace Reset Request S17F13,F14 Trace Report Reset Request/AcknowledgeTrace Report Request S6F29,F30 Trace Report Request/DataCreate Object S14F9,F10 Create Object Request/Acknowledge (SEMI E39.1)Delete Object S14F11,F12 Delete Object Request/Acknowledge (SEMI E39.1)

&lt;!-- Page 33 --&gt;

SEMI E53.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 2004 2 6 Event Parameters MappingTable 2 Event Service Parameter MappingParameter SECS-II Data Item or Object AttributeErrorCode ERRORCODEErrorText ERRTEXTReportID RPTIDDataSrcSpec DATASRCCollEventID CEIDEvtSrcSpec EVNTSRCEnabled CEED(list of) AttrName (list of) VIDReportChangeOnly RPTOCTraceID TRIDSamplePeriod TRSPERTotalSamples TOTSMPGroupSize REPGSZStartEventID CEIDStopEventID CEIDAutoDelete TRAUTOD 7 Implementation Details7.1 Many of the messages of the Event ReportingStandard are implemented with currently definedSECS-II messages. Certain restrictions must be appliedto their usage. These restrictions are specified in thissection.7.2 To be OSS-compliant, the following data itemsmust use the format 20 specification: RPTID CEID TRID VID7.2.1 The format of the ASCII strings shall conform tothe Object identifier specifications in the ObjectServices Standards, document SEMI E39 and SEMIE39.1.7.3 Each Data Report sample, whether stand alone oras part of an Event or Trace report, will reportTIMESTAMP as the first item in its list of reportvariables and/or object attributes. This means forreports defined by the service user, the user shoulddefine TIMESTAMP as the first VID in the reportdefinition. Further, all of the service providerspredefined reports shall deliver the value ofTIMESTAMP in the first V. 7.4 Serveral capabilities of the Event ReportingStandard are accessed through the Object ServicesStandard. When an instance of a report (Report, Event,or Trace) object has been created, then its attributes canbe read and written using the Object Services GetAttrand SetAttr messages.7.4.1 Object Services shall be used to set RPTOC andto get CHGND.7.4.2 Object Services shall be used to set or clearCEED.7.4.3 EVNTSRC shall be provided in supplierdocumentation or as a list of Event Sources obtained byusing Object Services to interrogate the CollectionEvent Object, COLLEVENT, with the GetAttrNamerequest message.7.5 Event Reporting Services is protocol independentand therefore, makes no mention of SECS-II multi-block access and grant messages. When the EventReporting Services use the SECS-II protocol, thenS6F11,F13 shall be preceded by S6F5 if a report will bemulti-block. Trace Report Send, S6F27 shall also usethe multi-block access/grant transaction if the reportwill be multi-block.

&lt;!-- Page 34 --&gt;

SEMI E53.1-0704 © SEMI 1996, 20043 NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties orrepresentations as to the suitability of the standards setforth herein for any particular application. Thedetermination of the suitability of the standard is solelythe responsibility of the user. Users are cautioned torefer to manufacturers instructions, product labels,product data sheets, and other relevant literaturerespecting any materials mentioned herein. Thesestandards are subject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility thatcompliance with this standard may require use ofcopyrighted material or of an invention covered bypatent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMItakes no position respecting the validity of any patentrights or copyrights asserted in connection with anyitem mentioned in this standard. Users of this standardare expressly advised that determination of any suchpatent rights or copyrights, and the risk of infringementof such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 35 --&gt;

SEMI E54-0705 © SEMI 1997, 20051 SEMI E54-0705SENSOR/ACTUATOR NETWORK STANDARD This standard was technically reapproved by the Global Information and Control Committee and is the directresponsibility of the North American Information and Control Committee. Current edition approved by theNorth American Regional Standards Committee on March 14, 2004. Initially available at www.semi.orgMay 2004; to be published July 2004. Originally published in 1997; previously published March 2003. NOTICE: The designation of SEMI E54 was updated during the 0705 publishing cycle to reflect the creation ofSEMI E54.16 and SEMI E54.17.NOTICE: The document that was previously designated as SEMI E54 (Standard for Sensor/Actuator NetworkCommon Device Model) has been redesignated as SEMI E54.1. Because the Sensor/Actuator Network Standard isthe parent document, it has been designated as SEMI E54.1 Purpose1.1 This specification provides the structure of SEMIs Sensor/Actuator Network (SAN) standard. It provides thedefinition for interoperability with respect to SEMI SAN standard-compliant Sensor/Actuator devices. 2 Scope2.1 This standard specifies how devices interoperate on a network as part of the control system for equipment.2.2 This specification, which is the root of the SAN standard, defines the relationships of each of the otherspecifications that are components of the SEMI SAN standard.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to address safety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine theapplicability of regulatory or other limitations prior to use. 3 Referenced Standards3.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E30  Generic Model for Communications and Control of SEMI Equipment (GEM)SEMI E39  Object Services Standard: Concepts, Behavior, and ServicesSEMI E54.1  Standard for Sensor/Actuator Network Common Device Model3.2 Other DocumentsISO 74981  Basic Reference Model for Open Systems Interconnection (OSI)James Rumbaugh, Michael Blaha, William Premerlani, Frederic Eddy, William Lorensen, Object-OrientedModeling and Design, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 1991.NOTICE: Unless otherwise indicated, all documents cited shall be the latest published versions. 4 Terminology4.1 Abbreviations & Acronyms4.1.1 API  Applications Programming Interface4.1.2 CDM  Common Device Model. The root object application model for devices on the sensor bus.4.1.3 DM  DeviceManager. An object specified in SEMI E54.1 (Standard for Sensor/Actuator Network CommonDevice Model). 1 International Organization for Standardization, ISO Central Secretariat, 1, rue de Varemb, Case postale 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland.Telephone: 41.22.749.01.11; Fax: 41.22.733.34.30Website: www.iso.ch

&lt;!-- Page 36 --&gt;

SEMI E54-0705 © SEMI 1997, 2005 2 4.1.4 IDL  Interface Definition Language. A programming language-independent notation for specifyinginterfaces.4.1.5 ISO  International Organization for Standardization.4.1.6 NCS  Network Communication Standard. Provides the specification for mapping the CDM and SDM tospecific network technologies. These standards will be incorporated as parts of the SEMI SAN standard.4.1.7 OEM  Original Equipment Manufacturer. They are usually the control system developer, but in any casethey are almost always responsible for the control system.4.1.8 OMT  Object Modeling Technique. A methodology developed by James Rumbaugh, et al. for using objectsto model systems.4.1.9 OSI  Open System Interconnection. A seven-layer model for communications developed by ISO.4.1.10 OSS  Object Services Standard. SEMI E39.4.1.11 SAN  Sensor/Actuator Network. It is frequently used to reference this standard.4.1.12 SDM  Specific Device Model. This is an application model for a specific type of sensor, actuator, or entity.4.2 Definitions4.2.1 application  for software, this is a working series of computer instructions that provide end user services.4.2.2 applications model  a formal description of the software elements and interactions that perform an end usertask.4.2.3 entity  in software engineering, this is something that is recognizable as distinct and particular from theother things that make up a software system or program.4.2.4 interface  in information modeling, it is the boundary between two entities from which information willflow.4.2.5 user layer  in communications, this is a set software function connected to the communication protocol'stop layer, usually called the applications layer, from the users application environment. It typically allows the userapplication to be protocol-independent. 5 Overview5.1 Referring to Figure 1, the SAN standards specify a complete communications solution covering all the layers ofthe OSI reference model. The CDM and SDM together specify a protocol-independent set of application services,attributes, and behavior for a device that must be supported by the user layer as shown in Figure 1. An NCScompletes the specification of the user layer by specifying a mapping to a network technologys interface. The NCSmust specify its capabilities referenced against the ISO OSI Reference Model. An NCS may utilize an open orcommercial solution. In any case, the NCS will provide references to those solutions specifications.

&lt;!-- Page 37 --&gt;

SEMI E54-0705 © SEMI 1997, 20053 Figure 1SEMI SAN Protocol Layers 5.2 Generally, the functionality of a software layer is embodied by the definition of the services it provides. Itsservices are the set of messages it generates and to which it responds, and its subsequent behavior upon receipt ofany particular message. The CDM and an SDM provide a complete user layer specification in a platform andlanguage-neutral form (dotted line in Figure 1). The goal being to provide device interoperability at the applicationslevel. The NCS will guarantee interoperability at the network level (i.e., across a single type of network). The SANstandard does not require implementation of the top interface to the user layer, as specified by the CDM and anSDM. The CDM and an SDM provide the information needed to develop an NCS, which defines the interfacerequirement between the user layer and a specific network technologies communication layer (the solid line labeledas Network Interface). This means that the SAN standard allows user applications, whether from the device or thecontroller side implementation viewpoint, to interact directly with a network technologies interface.5.3 Network Technology Supplier View of the SAN Standard5.3.1 The CDM and an SDM together specify the messages, behavior, and attributes of a device type that will bevisible over the network. In Figure 1, this is the area above the line that indicates the protocol-independent interface.Network suppliers will map this information to the top layer of their protocol. They do this by helping to developand extend their NCS.5.3.2 Most network suppliers have an application layer already defined for their protocol. In that case, the user layeras specified in a SEMI SAN NCS is quite thin. In fact, it is just a simple mapping of SDM interface to messages anddata (attributes) provided by the network. Thus, an NCS (one for each supported network) specifies a user layer thatsits on top of the network suppliers protocol.5.4 Device Supplier View of the SAN Standard5.4.1 Device suppliers are not required to implement designs illustrated in the specific device model (SDM)specifications. The designs are presented using an object-modeling notation as a means to clearly specify the devicesinterface. An SDM provides a model of a device, it is not a design for the device. Device suppliers are not expectedto provide an object-oriented implementation. However, in order to ensure that a device interface responds asexpected, it is necessary for the device supplier to not only provide the support for the services and attributesspecified, but to ensure that the code that is implemented on the device behaves as specified by the applicationsmodel for a specific device type.5.5 Equipment Supplier View of the SAN Standard5.5.1 The OEMs have the largest task in adopting the SAN standard. They have to implement applications that usethe interfaces defined for the many devices that make up the typical equipment control system. They have to be

&lt;!-- Page 38 --&gt;

SEMI E54-0705 © SEMI 1997, 2005 4 familiar with the interfaces of a large number of the SDMs. On the other hand, they will become insulated from theinner workings of many devices, and from the code that they used to write to support those inner workings. In manycases, they may have to implement more than one Network Communication Standard.5.5.2 During early adoption, OEMs may look to the SAN to act as a replacement for memory mapped discretewired IO. With this type of adoption, the OEM will not lessen his burden of control code.5.5.3 As Sensor Bus becomes more broadly adopted, OEM's may take advantage of the distributed processingcapability offered by intelligent devices to reduce the complexity of their control software.5.6 The SAN Standard Structure5.6.1 A SAN employs devices from numerous sup-pliers. The SEMI SAN standard provides a framework to ensureinteroperability of these devices within a network. The standard enables device suppliers and equipment controlsystem developers to achieve that end. The SAN standard comprises five specifications.5.6.2 The first specification is this document, which is the root document and specifies the connection between theother documents of the standard. It also specifies the construction for each of the other documents.5.6.3 The next specification is the Common Device Model Specification. Each device on the SAN must complywith this specification.5.6.4 The third specification defines the templates for creating ballots for specific device models and additions tothe NCS.5.6.5 The fourth specification is Specific Device Models standard. These standards contain models for various typesof sensors, actuators, and entities. For instance, a model of a mass flow controller, a manometer, and a thermocouplewill be specified.5.6.6 The fifth type of specification is the Network Communication Standards. Each network technology has itsown standard as an ancillary specification to the SAN standard.5.6.7 Applications notes may accompany a number of the standards documents and are intended to guideimplementors in the application of the standard. 6 Concepts6.1 Minimal device  The SAN specifications allow simple and complex devices to be built compliant to thestandard. This is done by specifying a minimum of required attributes, services, and behaviors in an SDM. TheSDMs may also provide optional service definitions that must be followed if extended capabilities are to be builtinto a device. Devices that do not implement the extended capabilities must respond to extended service or accessrequests with an appropriate response code rather than failing to respond or issuing an exception or alarm message.6.2 Many of the SAN NCS specifications rely on commercial technology. A significant number of networktechnologies are available off-the-shelf. The standards do not prescribe a choice. Once a technology described in anNCS is chosen, the NCS specifies how it is to be applied. The SAN standard is easily extensible for futuretechnologies.6.3 A device supplier must be able to use the standard to describe a device with little or no ambiguity for the deviceusers. For the user, this means that he can select a device with confidence and that it can be easily integrated with hiscontrol system. The user must understand the electrical interface, the capabilities, and messages which a devicesupports based on the suppliers description of how this standard is supported by the device. 7 Requirements7.1 Organization of the SAN Specifications  Figures 2 and 3 are intended to assist in understanding the documentrelationships that are specified in the following subsections. In these figures, all specifications that are standards aredrawn as rounded rectangles. In Figure 3, the shadowed rectangles indicate the standards that contain requirementsfor implementing devices that are compliant to this standard.

&lt;!-- Page 39 --&gt;

SEMI E54-0705 © SEMI 1997, 20055 Figure 2Organization of SAN Specification Figure 3SAN Standard Relationships 7.1.1 The CDM specification is the first ancillary document of the SAN suite.7.1.2 A second ancillary specification to the SAN standard provides templates that are guides to adding specificdevice models and network communication mappings to the SAN standard.7.1.3 Specifications for specific device models for all types of devices are included as additional ancillaryspecifications of the SEMI SAN standard. Specific device models are added in the order they are developed andpassed SEMIs ballot procedure.7.1.4 Each network technologys user layer specification is included as an ancillary standard (see Figure 3). TheseNetwork Communication Standards (NCS) provide the mapping for each of the approved specific device models.

&lt;!-- Page 40 --&gt;

SEMI E54-0705 © SEMI 1997, 2005 6 Therefore, each NCS is also a specification that grows over time. As new device models are developed andapproved, a mapping of the model to a network technology is added to a NCS.7.1.5 Auxiliary Information  Auxiliary information may be included with the standard in the form of appendicesor technical notes. Generally, this information is not balloted, but is included as provided by the SEMI StandardsProgram regulations. Auxiliary information shall always be noted as such when it accompanies a specification orballot.7.2 Interoperability7.2.1 At the Applications Level  The SDMs are used to derive the definitions for attributes, services, and behaviorthat are unique to each device type. A model may discuss relationships internal to a device to provide additionalmeaning to the services and attributes that can be manipulated over the network. Applications written to thesemodels can operate a device independent of the network on which they communicate. The models shall assure thatdevices of different types can operate cooperatively at the applications level.7.2.2 Below the User Layer  The various SANCS specifications describe the method by which a devicecommunicates over a specific network such that it can meet the requirements of its type. All devices describedwithin an NCS shall operate cooperatively on that specific network technology below the user layer.7.2.3 The SEMI SAN standard does not address methods for internet-working below the applications layer, asdescribed herein. An application entity may connect to more than one network. This could be typical of theapplication entities on the equipment controller. While the SAN standard allows that application entities could existat any network node, it requires no mechanism for a message that begins on one network to be routed to anothernetwork.7.3 SEMI SAN Compliance  To fully describe the characteristics of a network capable device, its complianceshall be specified by reference to the SAN ancillary standards. Thus, a device indicates both its type and networktechnology for its SDM and a NCS.7.3.1 For a device to be compliant to the SAN standard, it shall implement all of the required attributes, behavior,and services as described in the SAN CDM.7.3.2 Type or Applications Model Specification  The SDM of a device (which is its type, e.g., MFC orthermocouple) shall be denoted by SEMI E54.y, where y indicates the SDM ancillary standard.7.3.3 Network Communication Specification Communication (protocol) compliance specification of a device isdenoted by SEMI E54.x, where x is the network communications ancillary specification. NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standard set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturers instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature respecting any materials mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility that compliance with this standard may require use of copyrightedmaterial or of an invention covered by patent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMI takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any item mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility.

&lt;!-- Page 41 --&gt;

SEMI E54-0705 © SEMI 1997, 20057 RELATED INFORMATION 1APPLICATION NOTES NOTICE: The material contained in these Application Notes is not an official part of SEMI E54 and is not intended to modify orsupersede the official standard. Rather, these notes are auxiliary information included as reference material for implementers ofthe standard. The standard should be referred to in all cases. SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability ofthe material set forth herein for any particular application. The determination of the suitability of this material for any particularpurpose is solely the responsibility of the user. R1-1 Implementing a SAN Standard-Compliant DeviceR1-1.1 This Related Information section describes how the SAN standard is used by a device supplier who wishesto offer SEMI SAN-compliant devices to the market.R1-1.2 While the SAN standard may appear overwhelming on first viewing, it is actually built from independentcomponents. It is not necessary to understand or know the entire standard. It can be dealt with in small pieces. Fordevice suppliers, only the pieces that deal with their particular device type need to be considered. The specificationsto implement a specific device are typically less than thirty pages of text. The standard is structured such that it isextensible while providing the ability to specify a device by reference to the standard.R1-1.3 Synopsis of Device Operation  All devices on a SAN have a similar operational profile. That profile isspecified in SEMI E54.1 (Standard for Sensor/Actuator Network Common Device Model) and in the CommonDevice Model support section of each NCS.R1-1.3.1 Table R1-1 explains where to find specifications for various device operations. Table R1-1Operation Spec.Power applied CDMEnable SAC CDMEnable DM CDMEnable Communications NCSEstablish Communication NCSSend Events CDMReceive messages/answer CDMSend messages/accept CDM R1-1.4 Device Type  Each type of device is specified in the SDM specifications. One SDM is devoted to eachdevice type. An SDM is always a specialization of the CDM. The SDM provides services, behavior, and attributesthat are in addition to those specified in the CDM. For example, the SDM of a manometer might specify attributesfor current pressure and alarm bands. It might have services needed for performing calibration.R1-1.5 Network Technology  How a network technology is used by the SAN standard is specified in an NCS.The NCS for a technology provides a mapping of the CDM and SDM of a device type to a specific networkprotocol.R1-1.5.1 It is only necessary for a device to support an NCS and the section for its type within that NCS. The NCSprovides all that is needed to ensure that a device can communicate and interoperate across a given networktechnology. The point is that from the other side of the wire, the network-independent interface is not visible. Thatinterface is implied by the behavior of the network interface.R1-1.6 Network Independence  Device suppliers have the option of supplying an interface at the protocol-independent applications layer, as indicated in Figure 1. While this requires more implementation work for thedevice supplier, it speeds the integration of sensors and actuators for the OEM.

&lt;!-- Page 42 --&gt;

SEMI E54-0705 © SEMI 1997, 2005 8 R1-1.6.1 In this case, it is still necessary for the device to support the NCS to ensure that their device willinteroperate with other devices on the network.R1-1.6.2 To supply this option, a device supplier would provide a device driver-like interface (software) to theOEM.R1-1.6.3 Devices that supply a protocol-independent API that is compliant to the SEMI SAN standard provideadvantages to both device and control system suppliers. The device supplier can assure that his device receivessyntactically correct messages at his network interface layer. Control applications written to the protocol-independent interfaces have the advantage that they would not have to be rewritten in order to change to anothernetwork. To achieve this, device suppliers would have to ship software, in the form of device drivers, that wouldbe installed on the control supplier's platform.NOTE 1: Standards for these device drivers may be developed at a later time as they do not currently exist. However, mostoperating systems used by control systems suppliers support installable device drivers.R1-1.7 Recommendations on Optional and Extended Device Capabilities  It is expected that device supplierswould not compete based on their network interface. Devices traditionally compete based on cost, service, stability,reliability, accuracy and repeatability, and relevant dynamic attributes. From a network perspective, all devices havethese common characteristics: periodic reporting, polled reporting, asynchronous event reporting, calibration, health,and diagnostic reporting. Access and control over the common characteristics should be implemented based on theSAN standard. Access and control of the competitive characteristics of devices may be implemented with supplier-specific interface extensions. However, the device supplier is strongly cautioned in the use of these extensions.Heavy use of extensions could be a serious competitive disadvantage unless the supplier is the clear winner in all thecompetitive characteristics. A locked door could lock one in, it could also lock one out. Device suppliers will usuallyfind that their extensions can be implemented using the optional features of the CDM and SDM.NOTE 2: Network interfaces could be a competitive factor during the early technology adoption phase.R1-1.8 The Controller Side Usage of the SAN Standard  The control system supplier (in many cases this is theOEM) evolves a different view of SEMIs SAN standard. They are not as concerned with the network technology aswith utilizing the applications capabilities as specified by the CDM and SDMs. It is strongly recommended thatcontrol applications not be network aware. This may produce some operating overhead, but for most applications,this is a good trade-off to gain flexibility provided by a protocol-independent interface. Many network devices maybe supplied without any user layer (device driver) application side software. For these devices, the control systemsupplier would have to do some systems programming to provide a device driver for the application interface. Overtime, it is likely that most devices will be delivered with a device driver. (Similar to the way printers are sold withWindows (TM) device drivers. This is what allows Windows applications to use a printer of the end users choosing.)R1-1.8.1 The standards as of 1996 do not provide all the specifications needed to uniquely define how devicedrivers would be installed in the controller side of the API. This may become a future area of standardization, ifOEMs decide to invest in the standards development time.R1-1.9 Device Intelligence  This varies considerably between device types and between devices of the same type.SEMI SAN specifications attempt to allow a range of intelligence to devices without forcing them to be highlyintelligent. To this end, the applications models specify a required minimum set of capabilities that must besupported for a device. Optional capabilities generally require more intelligent device operation. Devices that are notcapable of supporting these extended capabilities provide a not implemented indication if access to thosecapabilities is requested.R1-1.9.1 The following subsections describe device capabilities in order of increasing intelligence. A devices I/Odirection is defined relative to the control application entity. Therefore, a sensor is an input, even though from thesensors point of view it supplies output values.R1-1.9.2 Polled input is the simplest sensor device requirement. All sensing devices should meet this requirement.In this mode of operation, a device only reports its value(s) when requested. This mode potentially provides thebiggest burden on network bandwidth. However, it is the capability level that is most compatible with currentcontrol system architectures.R1-1.9.3 Strobed output is the simplest actuator device requirement. All actuating devices should meet thisrequirement. This device only changes to a new state at the time of receipt of a specific message to do so.

&lt;!-- Page 43 --&gt;

SEMI E54-0705 © SEMI 1997, 20059 R1-1.9.4 Periodic input is the capability to program the input device so that it sends its value(s) on a scheduled orperiodic basis. Network bandwidth burden is reduced because it is not required to send a request each time an updatefor the input value is needed.R1-1.9.4.1 This is also very compatible with current control architectures.R1-1.9.5 Asynchronous input provides a capability for a sensing device to supply its value(s) when an event isdetected. These events are usually programmed into the device. Examples of programmable events include thresholdcrossing of a value, value rate of change, measurement complete.R1-1.9.5.1 Devices with this capability can significantly reduce network bandwidth burden, because they only needthe network when some event has occurred. Equipment control architectures developed before 1990 may not be ableto utilize this type of capability.R1-1.9.6 Programmed output provides the capability for actuating devices to follow a programmable sequence ofoperations. For instance, an analog output could be given a ramp profile to follow as it moves between set points.R1-1.9.6.1 This is another capability which can greatly reduce network bandwidth requirements. But, it is also acapability that 1990 vintage and earlier control systems may not be able to utilize easily.R1-1.9.7 Devices with distributed processing capabilities are able to support features such as monitoring theirhealth, providing diagnostics, and programmable preprocessing of data.R1-1.9.7.1 These capabilities can have an impact on network burden, but more importantly may improve equipmentreliability and maintainability. Again, this is a capability that is not readily utilized by control architecturesdeveloped prior to 1990.R1-1.9.8 Devices with distributed control capabilities are capable of being programmed to create peer relationshipswith other devices on the network. Within these relationships, it is possible for one or more of the peers to control orregulate a subsystem within the equipment. For instance, a butterfly valve and manometer with these capabilitiescould be programmed to hold a particular pressure.

&lt;!-- Page 44 --&gt;

SEMI E54-0705 © SEMI 1997, 2005 10 RELATED INFORMATION 2INDEX FOR SENSOR/ACTUATOR STANDARDS NOTICE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI E54 and is not intended to modify or supercede the officialstandard. After approval of this document, publication of this Related Information was authorized by the committee chairs solelyto aid in identifying the relationships between the current Sensor Bus standards and documents in process. Determination of thesuitability of the material is solely the responsibility of the user. R2-1 ScopeR2-1.1 The table below is based on Figure 1 in SEMI E54.1, and is intended to show the relationships betweenstandards that are currently published, as well as describe documents in process in SEMI Standards that, if approved,will be added to SEMI E54.R2-1.2 There are five categories:Main DocumentTemplatesSpecific Device ModelCommon Device ModelNetwork Communication StandardsR2-1.3 Standard titles with a designation number are published documents, and descriptors without designationnumbers are documents in process.Table R2-1 Sensor/Actuator Network (SAN) Standards SEMI E54, Sensor/Actuator Network (SAN) Standard Templates (How to Write Network Communications Standards (NCS) and Specific Device Models (SDM)) Specific Device Models Common Device Models Network Communications StandardsSEMI E54.4, Standard for SANCommunications for DeviceNetSEMI E54.5, Standard for SANCommunications for the Smart DistributedSystem (SDS) Mass Flow Controller SDM SEMI E54.1, Standard for Sensor/ActuatorNetwork Common Device ModelSEMI E54.6, Standard for SANCommunications for LONWorks NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standard set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturers instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature respecting any materials mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility that compliance with this standard may require use of copyrightedmaterial or of an invention covered by patent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMI takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any item mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 45 --&gt;

SEMI E54.1-1000 © SEMI 1996, 20001 SEMI E54.1-1000STANDARD FOR SENSOR/ACTUATOR NETWORK COMMON DEVICEMODEL This standard was technically approved by the Global Information & Control Committee and is the directresponsibility of the North American Information & Control Committee. Current edition approved by theNorth American Regional Standards Committee on July 14, 2000. Initially available at www.semi.orgAugust 2000; to be published October 2000. Originally published in 1996; previously published February1999.NOTE: This document was previously designated SEMI E54.Because this document is part of a suite of documents, itsdesignation has been reassigned for ease of reference.1 PurposeThis standard defines a model comprised of deviceobjects which are common to all devices on a semicon-ductor equipment sensor/actuator communicationsnetwork. 2 Scope2.1 This document describes comm on device structureand behavior (i.e., the minimum data structure andbehavior all devices must support to operate on thenetwork). These devices may range from simple sensorsand actuators through hosts, masters, or controllers.2.2 The model specified in this do cument is used inconjunction with a sensor/actuator network specificdevice model which describes the data structure andbehavior characteristic of the specific device. Together,these two models are sufficient to completely describe adevice as it appears from the network interface.2.3 This standard, together with a sensor/actuatornetwork interoperability guideline, a sensor/actuatornetwork communication specification, and one or morespecific device model specifications, form a completeinteroperability specification. The sensor/actuatornetwork document architecture is shown in Figure 1.2.4 To comply with this standard, a device mustimplement and support instances of the objects, objectattributes, object services, and object behaviors ident-fied in this document, unless explicitly stated otherwise. 3 Limitations3.1 This standard is a companion t o a suite of sensor/actuator network communication network specifica-tions. Therefore, using portions of this standard that re-late to network communications necessarily requires anunderstanding of the associated network specification.3.2 As this document is a standard for a commondevice model, it does not contain any information (e.g.,object, attribute, services, or behavioral descriptions)that relates to a specific device or device type. 3.3 While the standards depicted i n Figure 1 aresufficient to completely describe a device as it appearsfrom the network, they do not fully describe behavior ofthe device which is not visible from the network. Someof the behavior detail within standard objects is inten-tionally left to the manufacturer to define. This allowsflexibility for product differentiation and creates roomfor technology evolution. Manufacturer-specific objectsmay be defined by the manufacturer as appropriate, butare by definition outside the scope of this standard.3.4 This standard is compatible, bu t not compliant,with SEMI E39. This means that although this standarddoes not require compliance with SEMI E39, it isextensible such that implementations may be developedthat are fully compliant with both standards. Note thatthe concepts and terminology of this standard arecompatible with those of SEMI E39. However, SEMIE39 has specific requirements that are intended forhigher level applications and thus are not applied to theCommon Device Model. 4 Referenced Documents4.1 SEMI DocumentsSEMI E30  Generic Model for Communications andControl of SEMI Equipment (GEM)SEMI E39  Object Services Standard: Concepts,Behavior, and Services 4.2 Other DocumentsISO 74981  Basic Reference Model for OpenSystems InterconnectionDavid Harel, Statecharts: A Visual Formalism forComplex Systems, Science of Computer Programming8, 1987James Rumbaugh, Michael Blaha, William Premerlani,Frederic Eddy, William Lorensen, Object-OrientedModeling and Design, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:Prentice-Hall, 1991 1 International Organization for Standardization, 1 rue de Varembe,Case postale 56, CH-1211, Geneva 20, Switzerland. Available in theUS from American National Standards Institute, 11 West 42nd Street,13th Floor, New York, NY10036.

&lt;!-- Page 46 --&gt;

SEMI E54.1-1000 © SEMI 1996, 2000 2 Figure 1Sensor/Actuator Network-Related Documents 5 TerminologyTerminology may be reproduced here which is definedin other SEMI documents. 5.1 Device Component Terminolo gy5.1.1 attribute  Externally visible informationconcerning an object.5.1.2 behavior  A specification of how an objectacts. Actions result from different events the objectdetects, such as receiving service request, detectinginternal faults, or elapsing timers.5.1.3 class  A specific type or cla ssification ofobjects.5.1.4 device  A tangible thing con sisting of: (1) atleast one sensor and/or actuator and/or controller, (2) acommunications controller which supports a singlepoint of access to a network as specified in this docu-ment, and (3) interconnection and management hard-ware and software that provides for the consolidation of(1) and (2) into a system that has the capability tocomply with the specification detailed in this document.Examples of devices are given in Figure 2.5.1.5 device model  An abstractio n of a device forthe purpose of understanding it before building it orusing it.5.1.6 embedded object  An embed ded object is sim-ilar in functionality or purpose to the object in which itis embedded, or supports the functionality of the objectin which it is embedded. The embedding construct isutilized solely for purposes of documentation structureand understanding. As such, it does not imply anydirect relationship, inheritance, similarity in structure, or connectivity in addressing scheme between the em-bedded object and the object in which it is embedded.5.1.7 instance  A specific and rea l occurrence of anobject.5.1.8 manufacturer  In the contex t of this document,this refers to the manufacturer of the device.5.1.9 object  An entity with a spec ific set of dataand behaviors. Objects may be physical or conceptual.An object may be described in terms of its attributes,services it provides, and behavior it exhibits.5.1.10 service  A function offered o r supported byan object. A service consists of a sequence of serviceprimitives, each described by a list of parameters. Aservice excludes definition of message structure andprotocol.5.1.11 state diagram  A means of r epresenting statetransitions, where the boxes represent states and thearrows represent transitions between states.5.2 Data Type Terminology  Un less otherwisenoted, data type terminology defined in SEMI E39 willbe used in this document. The following terminologywill also be used:5.2.1 Boolean (BOOL)  A binary bit representing 0and 1 corresponding to FALSE and TRUE orDISABLE and ENABLE respectively.5.2.2 byte  A string of eight adjac ent bits,interpreted as a unit and often representing a character.5.2.3 character  A text symbol, le tter, digit, or markused to represent, control, or organize information thatis one byte in length.5.2.4 character string  A text strin g.

&lt;!-- Page 47 --&gt;

SEMI E54.1-1000 © SEMI 1996, 20003 Figure 2Examples of Devices 5.2.5 data type  An unsigned shor t integer formattedas an enumerated byte to specify attribute data format.The intended use of this attribute type is in cases wherean attribute, or set of attributes, may be defined,allowing for more than one level of support (e.g., INTor REAL). The following values are defined:0=INT1=REAL2=USINT3=SINT4=DINT5=LINT6=UINT7=UDINT8=ULINT9=LREAL1099=reserved for CDM100199=reserved for SDMs200255=manufacturer-specified 5.2.6 data units  An unsigned inte ger enumerated tospecify attribute data units. The intended use of thisattribute type is in cases where an attribute, or set ofattributes, may be defined, allowing for more than oneunits context. The values are defined in Appendix 1 ofthis document.5.2.7 date  A data structure of fou r bytes used torepresent a calendar date. Table 1 defines the format ofthe date data type. Table 1 Date Format Data # Description Range01 Year Unsigned Integer &lt; 65,5362 Month Unsigned Integer(range of 1 to 12)3 Day Unsigned Integer(range of 1 to 31) 5.2.8 Double Integer (DINT)  An integer, four byteslong, in the range -2 31 to 2 31-1.5.2.9 enumerated byte  A byte wi th assignedmeaning to the values 0 through 255. May take on oneof a limited set of possible values.5.2.10 full scale range  The defined 100% value ofan attribute in its assigned units. This value is notnecessarily the maximum value for the attribute. As anexample, the indicated flow attribute value may attain120% of the full scale range.5.2.11 Last Valid Value (LVV)  The most recentvalue successfully assigned to an attribute.5.2.12 Long Integer (LINT)  An int eger, eight byteslong, in the range -2 63 to 2 63-1.5.2.13 Long Real (LREAL)  A doub le floating pointnumber, 8 bytes long, as defined by IEEE 754.5.2.14 nibble  A string of four adja cent binary bits.5.2.15 null character  A byte with a value of zero.5.2.16 Real (REAL)  A floating poi nt number, 4bytes long, as defined by IEEE 754.5.2.17 Short Integer (SINT)  An int eger, one bytelong, in the range -128 to 127.

&lt;!-- Page 48 --&gt;

SEMI E54.1-1000 © SEMI 1996, 2000 4 5.2.18 Signed Integer (INT)  An in teger, 2 byteslong, in the range -32768 to 32767.5.2.19 text string  A string of one b yte characters.5.2.20 Unsigned Double Integer (UD INT)  An un-signed integer, four bytes long, in the range 0 to 2 32-1.5.2.21 Unsigned Integer (UINT)  A n integer, 2bytes long, in the range 0 to 65535.5.2.22 Unsigned Long Integer (ULIN T)  An un-signed integer, eight bytes long, in the range 0 to 2 64-1.5.2.23 Unsigned Short Integer (USIN T)  An integer,1 byte long, in the range 0 to 255. 6 Conventions6.1 Harel State Model  This doc ument uses theHarel State Chart notation to describe the dynamicbehavior of the objects defined. An overview of thisnotation is presented in an appendix of SEMI E30. Theformal definition of this notation is presented in Scienceof Computer Programming 8, Statecharts: A VisualFormalism for Complex Systems, by D. Harel, 1987.Transition tables (referred to in this document as statetransition matrices) are provided in conjunction withthe state diagrams to explicitly describe the nature ofeach state transition. Each transition table containscolumns for Transition #, Current State, Trigger, NewState, Action(s). The trigger (column 3) for thetransition occurs while in the current state. Theactions (column 5) include a combination of: 1)actions taken upon exit of the current state, 2) actionstaken upon entry of the new state, and 3) actions takenwhich are most closely associated with the transition.No differentiation is made. 6.2 OMT Object Information Mod el  The objectmodels are presented using the Object ModelingTechnique developed by Rumbaugh, James, et al, inObject-Oriented Modeling and Design, Prentice Hall,Englewood Cliffs, NJ, ©1991. Overviews of thisnotation are provided in an appendix of SEMI E39.6.3 Object Attribute Representatio n  The objectinformation models for standardized objects will besupported by an attribute definition table with thefollowing column headings: Attribute Definition Access Rqmt FormThe formal textname of theattribute. Description ofthe informationcontained. RO orRWY or N (seebelow) The access column uses RO (Read Only) or RW (Readand Write) to indicate the access that users of Object Services have to the attribute. Note that, in thisdocument, the access column is used only to indicateuser access via the network; no indication is made as tolocal access as this level of specification is consideredto be implementation-specific. Thus, in the context ofthis document, a RW attribute is a network-settableattribute (i.e., an attribute whose value can be alteredfrom the network), while a RO attribute is a non-network-settable attribute.A Y or N in the requirement (Rqmt) columnindicates if this attribute must be supported in order tomeet fundamental compliance for the service.The Form column is used to indicate the format of theattribute. 6.4 Service Message Representatio n6.4.1 Service Resource Definition  T he serviceresource definition table defines the specific set ofmessages for a given service group, as shown in thefollowing table: Service Type DescriptionMessage name N or R The intent of the service. Type can be either Notification (N) or Request (R).Notification messages are initiated by the serviceprovider. No response is expected. Request messagesare initiated by the service user. Request messages askfor data or for an operation to be performed. Requestmessages expect a specific response (no presumptionon the message content). 6.4.2 Service Parameter Dictionary  Each parametershould relate to either attributes from the object modelor events of the dynamic model (Harel State Chart). Allparameters to the services are listed in a single table ordictionary. The column headings for this parameterdictionary are as follows: Parameter Form DescriptionParameter X Data type A parameter A row is provided in the table for each parameter of theservice. The first column contains the name of theparameter. This is followed by columns describing theform and the contents of the parameter.The form column is used to indicate the type of datacontained in the parameter and the possible values itmay take on.The description column describes the meaning of theparameter and interrelationships with other parameters.

&lt;!-- Page 49 --&gt;

SEMI E54.1-1000 © SEMI 1996, 20005 6.4.2.1 Service Message Definition  There is a tableshowing the parameter detail for each service in whichparameters are explicitly specified. The columnheadings for the service detail are as follows: Parameter Req/Ind Rsp/Cnf DescriptionParameter X (see below) (see below) A description of theservice. The columns labeled Req/Ind and Rsp/Cnf link theparameters to the direction of the message. The mes-sage sent by the initiator is called the Request (Req).The receiver terms the message the Indication (Ind).The receiver may then send a Response (Rsp), whichthe original sender terms the Confirmation (Cnf).The request (Req/Ind) and response (Rsp/Cnf) entriescan take on the following values:M Mandatory parameter  Must be given avalid value.C Conditional parameter  May be defined insome circumstances and undefined in others.Whether a value is given may be completely optionalor may depend on the value of another parameter.U User-defined parameter- The parameter is not used.= The entries M and C in the response can bemodified with (=) to indicate that the value in theresponse must match the request. 7 Device High Level Structu reThe high level object view of a device aggregation isshown in Figure 3. A device is depicted as consisting ofa sensor/actuator/controller (SAC) object, a devicemanager (DM) object, and at least one active elementobject (i.e., sensor or actuator or controller object).Each of these objects by definition has attributes,services, and behavior. Note that the Device object isdepicted in Figure 3 only for purposes of illustrating ahigh level view of the device and its componentobjects; in the context of this document, the Deviceobject is not addressable, does not have addressableattributes or accessible services, and has no behaviordefined.This document defines in detail only the DM object.The SAC, Sensor, Actuator, and Controller objects aredefined here only in terms of characteristics common toall devices. A complete definition of a SAC object in-cludes an appropriate sensor/actuator network specificdevice model. This companion model could also com-plete the definition of sensor, actuator, and controllerobjects as appropriate to specify a device model. 7.1 General Requirements  Obje cts are defined interms of their object name and instance identifier.Identifiers for all objects described in this document aresummarized in Table 2. Note that these identifiers maybe used for remote interrogation of an object instancevia the sensor/actuator network (see appropriatesensor/actuator communications specification). Alsonote that, in Table 2, many of the objects specified inthis document have exactly one instantiation per device. De vice M an ag erObje ct (DM ) Device Se ns or / A ctu ator /C ontrol ler Ob je ct(S A C)Senso rObj ect( s)Actu at orObje ct(s )C o ntro lle rObje ct(s ) Coordina tes I s M anage d By m + n + p  1 m n p m n p (A ggregatio n) Active ElementFigure 3High Level Object View of a Device

&lt;!-- Page 50 --&gt;

SEMI E54.1-1000 © SEMI 1996, 2000 6 Table 2 Device Objects and Identifiers Object Name Object Identifier (tag) Support Requiredin a DeviceComment Sensor/Actuator/Controller SacI0\* Yes Only one instance per device allowed.Sensor SenIn\*\* No Zero or more instances per device allowed.\*\*\*Actuator ActIn\*\* No Zero or more instances per device allowed.\*\*\*Controller CntIn\*\* No Zero or more instances per device allowed.\*\*\*Device Manager DmI0\* Yes Only one instance per device allowed.\* Only one object instance per device; identifier uses I0 to specify instance zero.\*\* In is used to indicate the instance number of the object; n is a non-negative integer.\*\*\* The specification of the number of sensor, actuator, and/or controller object instances allowed per device may be further constrained by theappropriate sensor/actuator network specification. The objects described in this document collectively define a devices capabilities, including how it has beenconfigured for network interoperability. The information in the attributes of these object instances must beaccessible over the network and stored at the device.Character strings described in this document have a prescribed maximum length. If the contents of the string areshorter than the prescribed length, the string must be terminated with the null character: a byte whose value is 00h.Note that this specification of null termination does not indicate that a sensor/actuator network protocolimplementation communicating a character string over a network must send the null termination; the presentation ofcharacter string data over a network is sensor/actuator network communication protocol-specific. 7.2 Sensor/Actuator/Controller (S AC) Object  The SAC object is the device component responsible forcoordinating the interaction of the device with the sensory/actuation/control environment. A view of the SAC objectis shown in Figure 4. The SAC object coordinates operation of one or more sensor, actuator, and/or control objectinstances that collectively form the sensory/actuation/control portion of the device, so as to enable desired devicebehavior. For example, it could coordinate the operation of the device sensor, actuator, and/or control elements toenable device level data reporting or actuation, alarming detection and servicing, status reporting, device self-testing, device shutdown, etc. The number of sensor, actuator, and/or controller object instances allowed per devicemay be specified by the appropriate sensor/actuator network specific device model. An operating device shallcontain exactly one instance of a SAC object.The SAC object has embedded in it other objects that address specific tasks associated with coordinating theinteraction of the device with the sensor/actuation/control environment. These objects are listed in Table 3. Note thatalthough only one instance of the SAC object is allowed per device, a device can have multiple instances ofembedded objects. These objects are described in Section 7.2.4. m + n + p &gt; 1 Sensor / Actuator /Controller Object(SAC) Sm A n C pSensorObject(s)ActuatorObject(s) Coordinates ControllerObject(s) m n p Figure 4Detailed View of the Sensor/Actuator/Controller Object