---
title: "SEMI Chapter 131"
description: "SEMI标准文档"
sidebar_label: "SEMI Chapter 131"
sidebar_position: 131
tags: ['SEMI', 'Standard']
custom_props:
  source_type: 'pdf'
  source_file: 'semi-chapter-131.pdf'
  chapter: 131
  page_count: 1
---

import PdfDownloadCard from '@site/src/components/PdfDownloadCard';
import PdfViewer from '@site/src/components/PdfViewer';

<PdfDownloadCard
  pdfLink="/pdfs/semi/131.pdf"
  pdfSize="N/A"
  title="SEMI Chapter 131"
  description="SEMI标准文档，共1页"
/>

---

## 📖 查看PDF原文档（包含完整图表和格式）

<PdfViewer pdfPath="/pdfs/semi/131.pdf" />



&lt;!-- Page 1 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 20009 interaction using a generic measurement method. Thesignal measurement should be made with the driverloaded with reference load A (500 ohms in parallel with2.5pF ± 0.5pF of capacitance). The following nestedloop outline describes the test flow:for amplitude = 1V, 3V, 5V (optional)for pin = 1 to nfor edge = rising to fallingmeasure the 20% to 80% transition time of aNR driver signal with test cycle = 10\*min,delay = 0s using oscilloscope (averaging = 8)error = maximum transition time - minimumtransition timeend edgeend pinend amplitude 10.4.3.2 The transition time measureme nts are to bemade between the measured 20% and 80% points ofboth positive and negative signal edges, i.e., the 20%and 80% points on the signal transition edge relative toa 0% or 100% steady state level displayed on theoscilloscope. Ideally, measurement points chosenshould be referenced to a steady state level that resultsafter all aberrations in the transition have expired. Usethe lowest tester pin as a reference channel when settingthe measurement points for these measurements.10.4.3.3 ATE systems may use a focuse d calibrationroutine for driver pins. That routine is intended tocorrect edge error due to transition time variations. Inthe context of executing this method for a machine thathas this capability, the user of this method is advised to:1) Execute the Drive Input Transition Time Variationtest regardless, and 2) Enter the test results to themethod data summary, Table 2. The entry in Table 2for transition variation will be a reference parameter.This method as defined is incapable of making driveedge error measurements that exclude transitionvariation and jitter.10.4.4 Driver Input Timing Cycle Jitt er Test 12 Since driver input timing jitter cannot be determinedfrom Level 1 tests, an external instrument must be usedto measure short term, cycle to cycle (or period)instability. This can be done by making periodmeasurements of the driver-input channel under test,with a high bandwidth, digital sampling oscilloscope.A 50-ohm probe should be used to minimizemeasurement jitter. The tolerance for this test is ± 12 Trigger off the scope probe for this and the subsequent jitter test. Usea high persistence display to show signal jitter. Use of a high bandwidth-sampling oscilloscope with statistical capability is recommended.Instrumentation jitter should be extracted from the measured signal jitter,as explained in Appendix 4. 20ps13 (min-max) due to the tester/instrumentinteraction using a generic measurement method. Themeasurement results are expressed as RMS. Thismeasurement depends on the jitter distribution beingGaussian. Reference Appendix 4 for additional detailregarding this measurement. If in the application of thismethod it is determined that the jitter is non-Gaussian,skip this test and make the appropriate notation on theexceptions page (Appendix 3).10.4.4.1 The following nested loop out line describesthe test flow:for pin = 1 to nfor amplitude = 3Vfor test\_cycle = 2\*minfor format = RTZfor format\_delay = 50%for pulse\_width = 50%for i = 1 to 1000meas(i) = measure the period of the pin under testend imeasured signal jitter = RMS spread of meas(1)through meas(1000)end pulse\_widthend format\_delayend formatend test\_cycleend amplitudeend pinmeasured instrumentation jitter = RMS spread ofoscilloscope trigger(method described further in Appendix 4)actual RMS signal jitter = measured signal jitter -measured instrumentation jitter(via sum of squares - reference Appendix 4)Reference load B (50 ohms to ground) should be usedfor this measurement. 10.4.5 High Speed Clock Self-trigger Cycle Jitter Test If the ATE is configured with dedicated high speedclock pins, an external instrument must be used tomeasure short term, cycle to cycle (or period)instability. 13 When recording measurement data, log all measurements as they aretaken from the measurement equipment and show the associatedequipment tolerances as a separate entity.

&lt;!-- Page 2 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 10 10.4.5.1 This can be done by making p eriod measure-ments of the high speed clock channel under test, with ahigh bandwidth, digital sampling oscilloscope. A 50-ohm probe should be used to minimize measurementjitter. The tolerance for this test is ± 20ps (min-max)due to the tester/instrument interaction using a genericmeasurement method. The measurement results areexpressed as RMS. This measurement depends on thejitter distribution being Gaussian. Reference Appendix4 for additional detail regarding this measurement. If inthe application of this method it is determined that thejitter is non-Gaussian, skip this test and make theappropriate notation on the exceptions page (Appendix3). The following nested loop outline describes the testflow:for pin = (all high speed clock pins)for amplitude = 3Vfor test\_cycle = 10\*min to min by minfor clock\_delay = 50%for i = 1 to 1000meas(i) = measure the period of the clock pin undertestend imeasured signal jitter = RMS spread of meas(1)through meas(1000)end format\_delayend test\_cycleend amplitudeend pinmeasured instrumentation jitter = RMS spread ofoscilloscope trigger(method described further in Appendix 4)actual RMS signal jitter = measured signal jitter -measured instrumentation jitter(via sum of squares - reference Appendix 4)Reference load B (50 ohms to ground) should be usedfor this measurement. TriggerEdgeMeasureJitter 10.4.4& 10.4.5 Cycle Jitter TriggerEdgeMeasureJitter 10.4.6 Phase (PW) Jitter Figure 5Jitter Tests  Sections 10.4.4, 10.4.5 and 10.4.6 10.4.6 High Speed Clock Self-trigger Phase Jitter Test If the ATE is configured with dedicated high speedclock pins, an external instrument must be used tomeasure short term, phase (or duty cycle) instability.This can be done by making pulse width measurementsof the high speed clock channel under test, using a highbandwidth, digital-sampling oscilloscope. A 50-ohmprobe should be used to minimize measurement jitter.The tolerance for this test is ± 20ps14 (min-max) due tothe tester/instrument interaction using a genericmeasurement method. The results are expressed asRMS.10.4.6.1 This measurement depends on the jitterdistribution being Gaussian. Reference Appendix 4 foradditional detail regarding this measurement. If in theapplication of this method it is determined that the jitteris non-Gaussian, skip this test and make the appropriatenotation on the exceptions page (Appendix 3). Thefollowing nested loop outline describes the test flow:for pin = (all high speed clock pins)for amplitude = 3Vfor test\_cycle = 10\*min to min by minfor clock\_delay = 50%for i = 1 to 1000meas(i) = measure the pulse width of the clock pinunder testend imeasured signal jitter = RMS spread of meas(1)through meas(1000)end format\_delay 14 When recording measurement data, log all measurements as they are takenfrom the measurement equipment and show the associated equipment toleranceas a separate entity.

&lt;!-- Page 3 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200011 end test\_cycleend amplitudeend pinmeasured instrumentation jitter = RMS spread ofoscilloscope trigger(method described further in Appendix 4)actual RMS signal jitter = measured signal jitter -measured instrumentation jitter(via sum of squares - reference Appendix 4)Reference load B (50 ohms to ground) should be usedfor this measurement. 11 Data Collection Tables11.1 Table 1 is the data collection t able. Data can bemanually or automatically entered to this table as thisprocedure is executed, depending upon how the userchooses to implement data collection.11.2 Table 2 is intended to contain the finalconclusions or analysis results of this procedure. Datafor this table is taken from Table 1. Instructions forentering data to Table 2 will be described in Section 12,Reporting and Interpretation of Results, of thisprocedure. Examples of OTA calculations and dataentry to Table 2 are contained in Appendix 2.NOTE 4: A blank version of Table 2 is contained in Appendix1. 12 Reporting and Interpretati on of Results12.1 Reporting Results  A large a mount of data willbe gathered when this Test Method is executed per therequirements of this method. A subset of this datashould be collected into Table 1. This table contains theminimum and maximum values for the various testscontained in this Test Method.12.1.1 Table 2 is a summary revealin g the results ofthis Test Method. Table 2 entries will be determinedfrom values taken out of Table 1 as well as summationsof various entries occurring in Table 2. The followingis a guide to making entries to Table 2:12.1.2 Driver Input Timing Delay Err or (Section10.4.1)  This value is taken from Table 1. It is thedifference between the minimum and maximum valuesshown in Table 1 for this parameter.12.1.3 Driver Input Timing Cycle Jitt er (Section10.4.4)  This value is taken from Table 1. This is theRMS values shown in Table 1 for this parameter.12.1.4 Driver Input Transition Time V ariation(Section 10.4.3)  This value is taken from Table 1. Itis the difference between the minimum and maximumvalues shown in Table 1 for this parameter. 12.1.5 Driver Input Edge Placement Accuracy Driver Input Edge Placement by definition is thesummation of Driver Input Timing Delay Error(Section 10.4.1), Driver Input Timing Cycle Jitter(Section 10.4.4), and Driver Input Transition TimeVariation (Section 10.4.3). Regardless, since DriveInput Timing Delay Error measurements defined in thismethod do not exclude edge transition variation andjitter this entry is simply the measurements resultsobtained for Drive Input Timing Delay Error Level 2(Section 10.4.1). Enter this value into Table 2 as DriverInput Edge Placement.12.1.6 Compare Output Time Delay E rror (Section10.4.2)  This value is taken from Table 1. It is thedifference between the minimum and maximum valuesshown in Table 1 for this parameter.12.1.7 Compare Output Edge Placem ent Accuracy Compare Output Edge Placement will be entered intoTable 2 as the same entry made for Compare OutputTime Delay Error (Section 10.4.2).12.1.8 Drive Input to Compare Outpu t TimingAccuracy  Data taken from Table 1 for Section 10.3.1results: Drive Input To Compare Output TimingAccuracy = Reference  \[(Min Value + Max Value)/2\].Refer to examples in Appendix 2.12.1.9 Overall Timing Accuracy (OTA )  Bydefinition and in the general case, the OTA value is thesum of Driver Input Edge Placement Accuracy,Compare Output Edge Placement Accuracy, and DriverInput to Compare Output Timing Accuracy. Examplesare provided in Appendix 2 for making this entry intoTable 2.NOTE 5: For all High Speed Clock parameters shown inTable 2: High Speed Clock Delay and High Speed ClockTransition are parameters that use the same procedures asDrive Input Timing Delay and Drive Input Transition TimeVariation. High Speed Clock Delay and High Speed ClockTransition are parameters provided in this procedure toaccommodate those systems that have different pinelectronics for the High Speed Clock function. If the systemunder evaluation doesn't have a High Speed Clock function,then the steps in this procedure for all High Speed ClockAccuracy are not required. High Speed Clock Cycle Jitterand High Speed Clock Phase Jitter are reference parameterswith their respective test provided in this procedure to revealaccuracy for the High Speed Clock function when thatfunction is present. 12.1.10 High Speed Clock Delay Error (Section10.4.1)  This value is taken from Table 1. It is thedifference between the minimum and maximum valuesshown in Table 1 for this parameter.12.1.11 High Speed Clock Cycle Jitter (Section 10.4.5) This value is taken from Table 1. This is the RMSvalues shown in Table 1 for this parameter.

&lt;!-- Page 4 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 12 12.1.12 High Speed Clock Transition T ime Variation(Section 10.4.3)  This value is taken from Table 1. Itis the difference between the minimum and maximumvalues shown in Table 1 for this parameter.12.1.13 High Speed Clock Phase Jitter (Section10.4.6)  This value is taken from Table 1. This is theRMS values shown in Table 1 for this parameter.12.1.14 High Speed Clock Accuracy  Thisparameter is for systems that have a High Speed Clockfunction. High Speed Clock Accuracy is simply thesame entry made for High Speed Clock Delay Error.High Speed Clock Transition Time Variation, HighSpeed Clock Cycle Jitter, and High Speed Clock PhaseJitter are reference parameters and should be entered tothe appropriate location in Table 2.12.1.15 Driver Input Z Timing Errors (Section 10.3.5) There are four Drive Input Z Timing Errors. Eachvalue is determined in the same way and is to beentered into Table 2. This value is taken from Table 1.Data to enter here is Positive Error and Negative Errorper the data in Table 1 and Equation 1, Appendix 2.12.1.16 Timing Linearity (Section 10.3 .1)  Thisvalue is established from Table 1. Data to enter here isPositive Error and Negative Error per the data in Table1 and Equation 1, Appendix 2. These two valuesshould be entered at the appropriate place in Table 2.12.1.17 Extended Delay (Section 10.3. 4)  This valueis taken from Table 1. Data to enter here is PositiveError and Negative Error per the data in Table 1 andEquation 1, Appendix 2.12.1.18 Multiple Period (Section 10.3. 6)  Thisparameter is optional. The test method for thisparameter was defined for those systems with TimingOn the Fly (OTF). If the system under evaluation doesnot have OTF timing data entry for this parameter is notrequired. Else, this value is taken from Table 1. Datato enter here is Positive Error and Negative Error perthe data in Table 1 and Equation 1, Appendix 2.12.2 Interpreting Results  Table 2 will containsummarized data, results of the Overall Digital TimingAccuracy Analysis Method for automated test systems.12.2.1 This dialog is intended to expl ain the Level 1and Level 2 results for OTA contained in Table 2 andrequire reference to Figure 6, Figure 7 15, and Table 2.12.2.2 Level 1 analysis is meant to de termine a testsystems net conformance to the OTA specification inan efficient manner. 15 Additional information related to Figure 7 is contained inAppendix 2. 12.2.3 Level 2 employs external equi pment to isolateparameters that contribute to OTA. That data reveals amore detailed and accurate representation to OTAconformance. Regardless, there is a limitation atgetting to OTA entirely through Level 2 data collection.12.2.4 Level 1 and Level 2 parameter s are containedin Table 2 to represent OTA (Overall TimingAccuracy). Level 1 Timing Linearity (Section 10.3.1)provides analysis for all pins under comprehensiveconditions and is used to acquire the drive input tocompare output error parameter. Extended Delay(Section 10.3.4) complements Timing Linearity byverifying accuracy for timing generator delays beyondthe length of the test cycle, and can be (optionally) usedin lieu of Section 10.3.1. These two Level 1 elementsrepresent in part OTA. Thus, this method produces asingle point representation of system OTA, per themethodology defined in this method and consistent withthe definition of OTA. This is done by summing Level2 Drive Input Edge Placement Accuracy and CompareOutput Edge Placement Accuracy with Level 1 DriveInput to Compare Output Timing Accuracy.12.2.4.1 Compare side error in this met hod is not fullycharacterized or broken out into its constituent compo-nents, per the defintion of Compare Output Edge Place-ment Error. This method does establish Output TimingDelay Error, and its measurement contains the jittercomponent. But the method does not contain a way fordetermining Output Compare Timing Jitter by itself.12.2.5 Establishing OTA using only L evel 2 data isnot possible. Only two of the three components per thestandard definition of OTA can be determined. TheOTA definition states: OTA is the sum of Drive InputEdge Placement, Compare Output Edge Placement, andDrive Input to Compare Output Accuracy. Level 2analysis will collect data for the first two errorcomponents. The Level 2 parameter not achievable isDrive Input to Compare Output Accuracy. Level 1 willdetermine that value.12.2.5.1 The Drive Input to Compare O utput Accuracyby definition is the difference between the average ofmin & max drive input delay timing and the average ofmin & max compare output delay timing. Values forthose components are in the Level 2 data, but becausethere is no common reference point for these twocomponents when the data is taken, their differencecannot be established from the data at-hand.12.2.5.2 In summary Level 2 analysis i s capable ofindependently determining and isolating drive inputtiming error and compare output timing error. But,Level 2 drive input to compare output-timing error cannot be established. Analysis done in Level 1 is required

&lt;!-- Page 5 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200013 to establish Drive Input to Compare Output timingerror. Reference Figure 6.12.2.6 As noted, Level 1 analysis doe s establish driveinput to compare output-timing error. But, Level 1cannot independently determine and isolate drive inputtiming error from compare output timing error, as wasaccomplished in Level 2. What this means is if theminimum to maximum drive input to compare outputtiming error is established as 1ns (Level 1), the methodcannot create a break down such that so much of that1ns is input error, with the remaining part of that 1nsbeing the output error.12.2.7 Table 2 data also contains othe r valuablecomponents of ATE error that will assist in establishingATE timing integrity. Tests that establish the variouscomponents of Input Z Timing error, Multiple PeriodTests for on the fly timing, and for systems with a HighSpeed Clock function tests to determine various delay,jitter and time variation errors.12.3 A brief word on Drive Input to Compare OutputTiming Accuracy will be made. Drive Input toCompare Output Timing can be described in differentways. It is easy to think of this parameter, per thedefinition of this aspect of OTA (reference Figure 6), assimply the relative time difference (skew) betweendrive input delay timing (see SEMI G79) and compareoutput delay timing (see SEMI G79), for a particularmachine. 16 But this parameter, once established, is notnecessarily constant. For example, this parameter canchange from one calibration of a machine at a particulartime, to something different, as a result of a subsequentcalibration of that same machine. As well, Drive Inputto Compare Output error can also be considered as amachine to machine accuracy parameter, notnecessarily having the same value between any twomachines of the same kind.12.3.1 Thus, on each machine and at different pointsin time for the same machine the Drive Input toCompare Output Timing skew can be uniquely differentper machine. That difference being influenced by thevarious machine anomalies that contribute to machineerror including the not so perfect results of a periodicedge calibration.12.3.2 In the general case drive input to compareoutput as shown in Figure 6 should be thought of in thecontext of drive/compare edges having time varianceacross multiple machines or as representing edges forthe same machine but having variance across multipletime intervals associated with different calibrations. 16 Both drive input delay timing and compare output delay timingvalues taken at center of spread. By definition center of spread is theaverage of min & max: (minerr + maxerr)/2. 12.3.3 Examination of the OTA defin ition in thecontext of Figure 6, that being the general case and nota single point timing evaluation, reveals that the overalltiming accuracy time value is the time line indicated byA and the time line indicated by B. In a singlepoint AC timing evaluation, OTA is determined as adistribution of edges associated with time line A ortime line B, depending upon the relationship betweenthe drive edge values and compare edge values (seeSEMI G79) at that point in time. 13 Precision, Accuracy, and Precautions13.1 Precision and Accuracy  To lerances called-outin the various steps of this procedure are consistent withthe required supplemental equipment specificationscalled for in this Test Procedure.13.2 Precautions  A precaution i s advised whenexecuting this procedure to the letter. Unreliableexecution or failures may occur as a result of ATEspecification tradeoff that typically exists betweenminimum pulse width and drive signal amplitude. Thiscan be especially true when operation is in conjunctionwith complex formats such as SBC. This condition is aresult of specification limitations inherent in the systemunder evaluation. Be advised that failure conditionscan occur for systems with inadequate minimum pulsewidth and/or inadequate comparator bandwidthcharacteristics operating this procedure at highfrequencies with complex formats.13.3 It is necessary to note that data in Table 1 for anyparticular test represents minimum and maximumvalues taken for all conditions specified for each test.Examples of these conditions are parameters such asfrequency, formats, and different voltages. Thus theprecaution lies in how the user interprets the minimumto maximum deltas. As an example, a minimum valuecan occur at a lower frequency whereas a maximumvalue for that test may occur at a higher (different)frequency. Be aware, deltas under broad conditionsmay be greater than deltas for a focused condition.This specification is defined to provide results for thebroad case.13.4 When entering your analysis r esults to Table 2Single Point Overall Timing Accuracy (OTA), beadvised that the Single Point OTA Result is representedonly as indicated in Table 2, the sum of Drive Input toCompare Output Timing, Drive Input Timing DelayError, and Compare Output Time Delay Error. Thisappears to deviate from the absolute definition of OTAin that Drive Input Transition and Drive Input TimingCycle Jitter are not included. The method does not lenditself to making Drive Input Timing Delay Errormeasurements that exclude these two components. Perthis method when the Drive Input Timing Delay Error

&lt;!-- Page 6 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 14 measurements are made they include these twoparameters. Thus, because of the measurement ifincluded per the definition, they would be doublecounted.13.5 The OTA definition used in th is method does notinclude reference parameters shown in Table 2 such asDrive Input Z Timing Error, Extended Delay, MultiplePeriod (timing on the fly), and High Speed Clockmeasurements. These are strictly reference timingparameters. This method is not defined such that theyare to be included as part of OTA. Thus the user isadvised not to sum any of those items as part of theOTA value entered into Table 2.13.6 Table 2 is labeled Single Point Overall TimingAccuracy (OTA) Results. The term single point isused as a reminder for the user of this document thatone execution of this method on a particular ATEsystem does not in itself constitute an overall timing accuracy conclusion for that system. It is simply asample of the ATE's performance at some point in time.A true assessment of an ATE's performance for overalltiming accuracy requires a comprehensive analysisinvolving data collection over an extended period oftime that goes well beyond what this method providesin one pass.13.7 In general, regarding these pre cautions, the useris free to adjust the procedure and data collectionaccording to conditions consistent with the desiredobjective. Regardless, if the procedure is performedunder anything other than full-up broad conditions, theresults must be identified as a subset or partialinteroperation of a single point overall timing accuracyassessment. 14 Related DocumentsNone.

&lt;!-- Page 7 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200015 For reference see the following definitions taken from SEMI G79:7.1.1 Input Edge Placement Accuracy  DUT input timing error comprised of input timing delay error, input timing jitter andinput transition time variation.7.1.2 Output Edge Placement Accuracy  DUT output compare timing error comprised of output timing delay error andoutput compare timing jitter.Output Timing Delay Error  time delay error at the detected midpoint of a 5V transition, with respect to an ideal delay(NIST traceable reference), using any pin, any delay value, any compare timing edge,window or strobe compare mode, expect H or L, positive or negative transition and any testcycle length.Conditions:- measured with load circuit off or high impedance- delays normalized to rising edge detected by pin 1, using strobe compare format, expect H, @ 0ns- error normalized to the average of min & max of the error distribution- input signal: 50-ohm source, 05V step, &gt; 1V/ns, inserted at a zero length interconnect on theDUT side of a standard performance boardOutput Compare Timing Jitter  short term (cycle to cycle) instability using any pin, any compare timing edge, window orstrobe compare mode, expect H or L. (NOTE: This document does not define a methodfor Output Compare Timing Jitter.)Conditions:- error expressed as RMS value- physical reference point is a zero length interconnect on the DUT side of a standard performance board- jitter referenced to an independent synchronous trigger7.1.3 Input to Output Timing Accuracy  relative time difference between the input delay timing andoutput delay timing. See SEMI G79.Drive Input Edge PlacementAccuracy (See SEMI G79.)(Verification = Sections10.4.1, 10.4.3, and 10.4.4) See SEMI G79. BA Drive Input to CompareOutput Timing Accuracy(See SEMI G79.)(Verification  Section10.3.1)Compare Output EdgePlacement Accuracy (SeeSEMI G79) (Verification Section 10.4.2, NOTE: Thisdoes not include comparejitter.) Overall Timing Accuracy(+A, -B)(Verification = Sections10.4.1, 10.4.2, and 10.3.1) Output timing delayerror. See SEMI G79. Output Delay Timing Error  For anothermachine, or a new spread for the same machineas a result of a calibration.See SEMI G79. Figure 6Overall Timing Accuracy (OTA)

&lt;!-- Page 8 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 16 Compare Error MIN Value- MIN is the value allcomparators are programmed towhen the first drive edge isdetected. For a sweep- Compare edgesshould be programmed far inadvance of the referencesignal allowing enough roomto detect the earliestoccurrence of a drive edge. TIMING RELATIONSHIPS, DEFINITIONS & EXAMPLE RESULTSDEFINITIONS-Reference- The programmed value of the driversDrive to Compare Error- The difference between the average of min & max for Drive and the average of min & max for Compare error.RELATIONSHIPS & EXAMPLE RESULTS-Negative Error: Reference - Min Value = 1000ps - 850ps = 150psPositive Error: Reference - Max Value = 1000ps - 1250ps = -250psDrive to Compare Error: Reference - \[(Min Value + Max Value)/2\] = 1000ps - \[(850ps + 1250ps)/2\] = -50ps For a sweep- Compare edgesshould be programmed farbeyond the reference signalallowing enough room to detectthe latest occurrence of a drived MAX drive value- Detect thelatest occurrence of the drive edgewith the earliest compare edge(last fail- Timing Linearity Test10.3.1) MIN drive value- Detect theearliest occurrence of the driveedge with the latest compareedge (first pass- TimingLinearity Test 10.3.1)-100psDrive Edges 1000ps DriveReference+100ps -100ps +100psDrive Error DriveReference -100ps +100ps Drive Edges In this example:Drive edge error = ±100psCompare edge error = ±100psDrive to Compare error = - 50psThis example will illustrate hownumerical error values areobtained. Max Value- MAX is the valueall comparators are programmedto when the last drive edge isdetected. -100ps1000psDrive +100ps NOTE: All drive edges aredetected in parallel in pairs:pin 1 & 2, 3 & 4,...n-1 & n. NOTE: All drive edges aredetected in parallel in pairs: pin 1& 2, 3 & 4,...n-1 & n. 850ps 1050ps950ps 1000ps Reference-100ps +100ps 50ps DriveReference -100ps +100psFirst PassMin ValueLast FailMax Value When the edges on all pins aredetected the drive to compareerror relationship will appear asindicated here with associatederror values indicated. 1250ps(Max value)Sweep Last fail 850ps(Min value)SweepCompare Edges First pass 0ns850ps +100ps-100ps +900ps 0ns1250psCompare Edges +100ps-100ps 1250ps 50ps NOTE: Additional informationrelated to this figure is containedin Appendix 2. Drive to Compare Edge Error Figure 7Level 1 Drive Edge Error = Compare Error

&lt;!-- Page 9 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200017 Table 1 Data Collection Table for Levels 1 and 2Test Number Channel Number Min. Value Max. ValueSection 10.3.1 Timing Linearity Test(Drive Input Edge Placement)mtonSection 10.3.4 Extended Delay Test(Compare Output Edge Placement)mtonSection 10.3.5 Drive Input Z Timing Error(Z to 0 (Low))mtonSection 10.3.5 Drive Input Z Timing Error(Z to 1 (High))mtonSection 10.3.5 Drive Input Z Timing Error(0 (Low) to Z)mtonSection 10.3.5 Drive Input Z Timing Error(1 (High) to Z)mton L E V E L O N E Section 10.3.6 Multiple Period Test(Optional- for on the fly timing)mtonSection 10.4.1 Drive Input Time Delay Error(Drive Input Edge Placement)mtonSection 10.4.2 Compare Output Time Delay Error(Compare Output Edge Placement)mtonSection 10.4.3 Drive Input Transition Time Variation mtonEnter RMS value onlySection 10.4.4 Drive Input Timing Cycle Jitter(Short term cycle to cycle period jitter)mtonEnter RMS value onlySection 10.4.5 High Speed Clock Self Trigger Cycle Jitter(Short term cycle to cycle period jitter/clocks)mtonEnter RMS value only L E V E L T W OSection 10.4.6 High Speed Clock Self Trigger Phase Jitter(Short term phase /duty cycle jitter/clocks)mtonNOTE 6: This is a generic example of the data table needed to gather the data values for this timing analysis procedure. Theactual number of table entries will depend upon the number of tester pins under evaluation. The pins to be tested are representedby the designation m to n. For Level 1 the application program is expected to fill in the minimum and maximummeasurements made for each pin and specified condition. For Level 2 the user will fill-in these data values via manual entry,unless the application and implementation method employ automated/robotic operation.

&lt;!-- Page 10 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 18 Table 2 Test Method Summary Table for Establishing Overall Timing Accuracy (OTA)LEVEL 1 Timing LinearityExtended DelayMultiple PeriodData below representsLevel 1edge-delay results LEVEL 2 High Speed ClockAccuracyData to enter here ="a" below: Drive Input ZTiming Error Level1 (Section 10.3.5) Zto 0 (Low)-Data to enter here isPositive Error andNegative Error perthe data in Table 1and Equation 1Appendix 2. Timing LinearityLevel 1 (Sec.10.3.1)Data to enter here isPositive Error &Negative Error perthe data in Table 1and the 2 equations:Positive Error =Reference - Max ValueNegative Error =Reference -Min Value d) High Speed ClockSelf Trigger PhaseJitter Level 2 (Section10.4.6)-Data to enter here =the RMS value inTable 1. c) High Speed ClockSelf TriggerCycle Jitter Level 2(Section 10.4.5)Data to enter here =the RMS value inTable 1. Extended DelayLevel 1 (Sec.10.3.4)- Data toenter here isPositive Error andNegative Error perthe data in Table 1and Equation 1Appendix 2. Multiple PeriodLevel 1 Optional(Sec. 10.3.6) Datato enter here isPositive Error andNegative Error perthe data in Table 1and Equation 1Appendix 2. Drive Input ZTiming Error Level1 (Section 10.3.5) Zto 1 (High)-Data to enter here isPositive Error andNegative Error perthe data in Table 1and Equation 1Appendix 2.Drive Input ZTiming Error Level1 (Section 10.3.5) 0(Low) to Z -Data to enter here isPositive Error andNegative Error perthe data in Table 1and Equation 1Appendix 2.Drive Input ZTiming Error Level1 (Section 10.3.5) 1(High) to Z-Data to enter here isPositive Error andNegative Error perthe data in Table 1and Equation 1Appendix 2. 1) Drive Input ToCompare OutputTimingData to enter here isDrive Input to CompareOutput (value below) 3) Compare OutputEdge PlacementData to enter here = a)Compare Output TimeDelay Error 2) DriveInput EdgePlacementData to enter here ="a" below: Drive Input toCompare Out putTiming Accuracycalculated from10.3.1 data as:Reference -\[(MinValue+MaxValue)/2\]. Refer toexamples inAppendix 2. a) Compare OutputTime Delay ErrorLevel 2 (Section10.4.2) Data toenter here = thedelta between themin and max valuesin Table 1. a) Drive InputTiming Delay ErrorLevel 2 (Section10.4.1)-Data to enter here =the delta betweenthe min and maxvalues in Table 1. b) Drive InputTransition TimeVariationLevel 2 (Section10.4.3) -Data to enter here =the delta betweenthe min and maxvalues in Table 1. b) Compare OutputTiming Jitter(Note: no methodexists for this test) c) Drive InputTiming Cycle JitterLevel 2 (Section10.4.4)Data to enter here =the RMS value inTable 1. Single Point Overall Timing Accuracy (OTA) ResultsData to enter here is: A = Dr (item 2) + Cmp (item 3) + Dr-Cmp (item 1)-B = -Dr (item 2) - Cmp (item 3) + Dr-Cmp (item 1). Drive Z TimingData below representsLevel 1 Z- state timingresults a) High Speed ClockDelay Error (Section10.4.1- same as DriveInput Timing Delaybut for clock pins)Data taken andentered for these pinsequivalent to DriveInput Timing b) High Speed ClockTransition timevariation (Section10.4.3- same as driveinput transition timebut for clock pins)Data entry equivalentto Drive InputTransition Time. The user of the method is advised to read Section13, Precautions before filling in this table.

&lt;!-- Page 11 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200019 Table 2 (cont.) Test Method Summary - Non Data Analysis Aspects Associated with This Method 1. Level 1  Procedure Start Date and Time: 4. Level 2  Procedure Finish Data and Time: 5. Specify the Ambient Temperature when thismethod was executed. 6. Manufacturer's model number and/or name forthis system analyzed. 7. System Serial Number: 8. Date & Time of Last System Calibration: 9. Specify PARTIAL or Full-Up execution ofthis method. Exceptions noted in Appendix 3. 3. Level 2  Procedure Start Date and Time: 2. Level 1  Procedure Finish Date and Time: 10. Specify Number of Test Heads & Number ofPins analyzed using this method.

&lt;!-- Page 12 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 20 APPENDIX 1 NOTE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI G80 and was approved by fulll letter ballot procedures onSeptember 3, 1999 by the North Amerian Regional Standards Committee. Table A1-1 Test Method Summary Table for Establishing Overall Timing Accuracy (OTA)LEVEL 1 Timing LinearityExtended DelayMultiple PeriodData below representsLevel 1 edge-delayresults LEVEL 2 High Speed ClockAccuracy \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Drive Input ZTiming ErrorLevel 1 (Section10.3.5) Z to 0(Low)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Timing LinearityLevel 1(Sec.10.3.1)Positive Error:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Negative Error:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ b) High SpeedClock TransitionTime VariationLevel 2 (Section10.4.3- Drive InputTransition Timefor clock function)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ a) High SpeedClock Delay ErrorLevel 2 (Section10.4.1- Drive InputTiming Delay forclock function) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Extended DelayLevel 1 (Sec.10.3.4)Positive Error:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Negative Error:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Multiple PeriodLevel 1 Optional(Sec. 10.3.6)Positive Error:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Negative Error:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Drive Input ZTiming ErrorLevel 1 (Section10.3.5) Z to 1(High)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Drive Input ZTiming ErrorLevel 1 (Section10.3.5) 0 (Low)to Z\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Drive Input ZTiming ErrorLevel 1 (Section10.3.5) 1 (High)to Z\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 1) Drive InputTo CompareOutput Timing\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 3) CompareOutput EdgePlacement\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 2) DriveInput EdgePlacement\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Drive Input toCompare Out putTiming Accuracycalculated fromthe 10.3.1 entry. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ a) CompareOutput TimeDelay ErrorLevel 2 (Section10.4.2) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ a) Drive InputTiming DelayError Level 2(Section 10.4.1) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ b) Drive InputTransition TimeVariationLevel 2 (Section10.4.3) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ c) Drive InputTiming CycleJitter Level 2(Section 10.4.4) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Single Point Overall Timing Accuracy (OTA) ResultsData to enter here is: A = Dr (item 2) + Cmp (item 3) + Dr-Cmp (item 1)-B = -Dr (item 2) - Cmp (item 3) + Dr-Cmp (item 1) . Drive Z TimingData belowrepresents Level 1 Z-state timing results c) High SpeedClock Cycle JitterLevel 2 (Section10.4.5) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_d) High SpeedClock Phase JitterLevel 2 (Section10.4.6) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_The user of the method is advised to read Section13, Precautions before filling in this table.

&lt;!-- Page 13 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200021 Table A1-1 (cont.) Test Method Summary - Non Data Analysis Aspects Associated with This Method Drive to Compare Error = Reference - \[(Min Value + Max Value)/2\] 1. Level 1  Procedure Start Date and Time: 4. Level 2  Procedure Finish Data and Time: 5. Specify the ambient temperature when thismethod was executed. 6. Manufacturer's model number and/or name forthis system analyzed. 7. System Serial Number: 8. Date and Time of Last System Calibration: 9. Specify PARTIAL or Full-Up execution ofthis method. Exceptions noted in Appendix 3. 3. Level 2  Procedure Start Date and Time: 2. Level 1  Procedure Finish Date and Time: 10. Specify number of Test Heads and number ofPins analyzed using this method.

&lt;!-- Page 14 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 22 APPENDIX 2NOTE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI G80 and was approved by fulll letter ballot procedures onSeptember 3, 1999 by the North Amerian Regional Standards Committee. A2-1 ExamplesNOTE 1: This appendix contains Figures A2-1, A2-2, A2-3,and A2-4 created for this method as examples. The purpose ofthese examples is to show that Drive Input To CompareOutput Error (Accuracy) can be determined. Establishing thisvalue requires that two edge timing values be detected: MINDRIVE VALUE: the earliest occurrence the drive edges withthe latest compare edge. That is also referred to here asFIRST PASS. MAX DRIVE VALUE: the latest occurrenceof the drive edges with the earliest compare edge. That is alsoreferred to here as LAST FAIL.NOTE 2: Timing Linearity Test 10.3.1 can provide thesevalues. Examples in this appendix will also show data entryto Table 2 for OTA calculation.A2-1.1 Maximum Drive Value and Minimum DriveValue  To follow this analysis you can refer to theexample in Figure 7. In this example drive error andcompare error are each 100ps.NOTE 3: Figures A2-1, A2-2, A2-3, and A2-4 are equivalentand represent complementary examples for the cases wheredrive error does not have the same error value as compareerror.A2-1.2 Minimum Drive Value is determined by firstassuming that all compare edges are programmed at0ns. You must then take into account the drive tocompare error, in this example that value is 50ps (notethe sign indicating the shift is in the negative direction).Add the drive to compare error to the compareprogramming value. That means that the average(mean) compare edge can be thought of as actuallyoccurring at 50ps (versus the programmed value of0ns ). Per this example the compare error is ± 100ps,which means the latest compare edge would occur at +50ps (50ps + 100ps). Since the driver edge error isalso ± 100ps and is programmed to the reference valueof 1000ps, the earliest drive edge occurs at 900ps(1000ps minus 100ps). The MIN DRIVE VALUE isthen whatever programming value is needed to get thelatest compare edge (at + 50ps) to line up with theearliest drive edge (at 900ps). In this case that's 850ps(the difference between 50ps and 900ps). This value of850ps is also referred to at the FIRST PASS.A2-1.3 The same analysis applies when determiningMax Drive Value. First assume all compare edges areprogrammed to 0ns. The drive to compare error mustbe added-in, in this case 50ps. That puts the meanprogrammed compare edge at 50ps. Taking intoaccount the compare edge error of 100ps the earliestcompare edge would occur at 150ps. The drive edgesare programmed to 1000ps. Thus the latest drive edge occurs at 1100ps when the 100ps drive edge error istaken onto account. To get the earliest compare edge toline up with the latest drive edge 1250ps of delay wouldneed to be programmed (the difference between 1100psand 150ps). This value of 1250ps is referred to as theLAST FAIL.A2-1.4 Drive to Compare Edge Error  By definitionDRIVE TO COMPARE EDGE ERROR is the relativetime difference between the drive (input) edge error andcompare (output) edge error distributions. All driveedges in Level 1 are detected in parallel in pairs. Oncethe minimum and maximum values of drive edge aredetermined per procedure 10.3.1 (illustrated in FiguresA2-1 through A2-4) determination of drive to compareedge error can be established. As per these examples(Figures 7 and A2-1 through A2-4) the drive tocompare edge error is calculated as the reference valueminus the average of min and max error values:Drive to Compare Error =Reference-\[Min Value + Max Value)/2\]A2-1.5 Distinguishing Drive and Compare Edge ErrorUniquely Is Not Possible with Level 1 Tests  The useris cautioned that even though drive to compare edgeerror is known, per this method it is still not possible todistinguish Level 1 drive input error from compareoutput error. The key to this shortcoming lies inobservation of examples shown in Figures A2-1thorough A2-4. These examples have drive andcompare edge error values that are not the same value.That is, drive error is either much greater that compareedge error, or vice versa. In each example drive tocompare edge error is established. To establish thepoint that drive input error cannot be distinguished fromcompare output error per level 1, the user is asked tolook at Figures A2-1 and A2-2. In these two examplesit is assumed that the drive error and compare error aredifferent by a factor of two. Because of limitedvisibility per the level 1 approach it is not possible todetermine that the drive error is ± 100ps and thecompare error is ± 50ps (example in Figure A2-1), orvice versa. All that can be established is that thepositive error is 200ps and the negative error is 100ps.Level 2 tests are required to determine drive inputtiming error and compare output timing error.A2-1.6 The same rationale applies for the examples inFigure A2-3 and A2-4 where one component of error isassumed to be 200ps and the other is 100ps, with a 50psdrive to compare error. The drive to compare edgeerror is determined, but again establishing a uniquevalue for drive or a unique value compare error is not

&lt;!-- Page 15 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200023 possible in Level 1. All that is known per Level 1analysis is that the positive error is 350ps and thenegative error is 250ps. A2-1.4 Positive and Negative Error  EQUATION 1:Per the examples in this Appendix and data taken out ofTable 1:Positive Error = Reference - Max ValueNegative Error = Reference - Min Value

&lt;!-- Page 16 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 24 Drive to Compare Edge Error -50pS +50pSCompare Error MIN Value- MIN is the value allcomparators are programmed to whenthe first drive edge is detected. For a sweep- Compare edgesshould be programmed far inadvance of the reference signalallowing enough room to detectthe earliest occurrence of a driveedge. TIMING RELATIONSHIPS, DEFINITIONS & EXAMPLE RESULTSDEFINITIONS-Reference- The programmed value of the driversDrive to Compare Error- T he difference between the median value for Drive and the median value for Compare error.RELATIONSHIPS & EXAMPLE RESULTS-Negative Error: Min Value - Reference = 900pS - 1000pS = -100pSPositive Error: Max Value - Reference = 1200pS - 1000pS = 200pSDrive to Compare Error: Reference - \[(Min Value + Max Value)/2\] = 1000ps - \[(900ps + 1200pS)/2\] = -50pS For a sweep- Compare edgesshould be programmed far beyondthe reference signal allowingenough room to detect the latestoccurrence of a drive edge. Detect MAX drive value- Detectthe latest occurrence of the driveedge with the earliest compareedge (last fail) Detect MIN drive value- Detect theearliest occurrence of the driveedge with the latest compare edge(first pass)-100pSDrive Edges1000pS DriveReference+100pS 50pS -100pS +100pSDrive Error DriveReference Drive Edges -100pS1000pS DriveReference +100pS In this example:Drive edge error = ± 100pSCompare edge error = ± 50pSDrive to Compare error = - 50pSThis example will illustrate hownumerical error values are obtained. MAX Value- MAX is the value allcomparators are programmed to whenthe last drive edge is detected. 1200pS(Max value)Sweep Compare Edges 900pS(Min value)Sweep Compare EdgesNOTE: All drive edges aredetected in parallel in pairs:pin 1 & 2, 3 & 4,...n-1 & n. NOTE: All drive edges aredetected in parallel in pairs:pin 1 & 2, 3 & 4,...n-1 & n. 1200pS 1000pS Reference-100pS +100pS 50pS DriveReference Last FailMax Value When the edges on all pins aredetected the drive to compare errorrelationship will appear asindicated here with associated errorvalues indicated. -50pS +50pS -50pS +50pS 1000pS Last fail First pass 950pS +50pS-50pS 900pS 1200pS 0nS 0nS 900pS First PassMin Value Figure A2-1Level 1 Compare Edge Error &lt;&lt; Drive Edge

&lt;!-- Page 17 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200025 Drive to Compare Edge ErrorCompare Error MIN Value- MIN is the valueall comparators areprogrammed to when the firstdrive edge is detected. For a sweep- Compare edgesshould be programmed far inadvance of the reference signalallowing enough room to detectthe earliest occurrence of a driveedge. TIMING RELATIONSHIPS, DEFINITIONS & EXAMPLE RESULTSDEFINITIONS-Reference- The programmed value of the driversDrive to Compare Error- The difference between the average of min & max for Drive and the average of min & max for Compare error.RELATIONSHIPS & EXAMPLE RESULTS-Negative Error: Reference - Min Value = 1000ps - 900ps = 100psPositive Error: Reference - Max Value = 1000ps - 1200ps = -200psDrive to Compare Error: Reference - \[(Min Value + Max Value)/2\] = 1000ps - \[(900ps + 1200ps )/2\] = -50ps For a sweep- Compare edgesshould be programmed farbeyond the reference signalallowing enough room to detectthe latest occurrence of a driveedge. MAX drive value- Detect thelatest occurrence of the driveedge with the earliest compareedge (last fail- Timing Linearitytest 10.3.1) MIN drive value- Detect theearliest occurrence of the driveedge with the latest compare edge(first pass- Timing Linearity Test10.3.1) 50ps In this example:Drive edge error = ±50psCompare edge error = ±100psDrive to Compare error = - 50psThis example will illustrate hownumerical error values are obtained. MAX value- MAX is the valueall comparators are programmedto when the last drive edge isdetected. 1200ps(Max Value) NOTE: All drive edges aredetected in parallel in pairs: pin 1& 2, 3 & 4,...n-1 & n. NOTE: All drive edges are detected inparallel in pairs: pin 1 & 2, 3 & 4,...n-1& n. 900ps 950ps 1000ps Reference 50ps First PassMin valueLast FailMax value When the edges on all pins aredetected the drive to compareerror relationship will appear asindicated here with associatederror values indicated. -100ps -100ps +100ps 900ps(Min value)SweepCompare Edges -100ps +100ps 1000ps DriveReference 1000ps Last fail Sweep+100ps-100ps First pass 50ps -50ps +50psDrive Error DriveReference -50ps +50psDrive Edges -50ps +50psDrive Edges1000ps DriveReference -50ps +50psDriveReference +100ps 0ns 1200ps0ns 900ps 1200ps Compare Edges Figure A2-2Level 1 Drive Edge Error &lt;&lt; Compare Edge Error

&lt;!-- Page 18 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 26 Drive to Compare Edge Error -200ps +200psCompare Error MIN Value- MIN is the value allcomparators are programmed to whenthe first drive edge is detected. For a sweep- Compare edgesshould be programmed far inadvance of the reference signalallowing enough room to detectthe earliest occurrence of a driveedge. TIMING RELATIONSHIPS, DEFINITIONS & EXAMPLE RESULTSDEFINITIONS-Reference- The programmed value of the driversDrive to Compare Error- The difference between the average of min & max for Drive and the average of min & max for Compare error.RELATIONSHIPS & EXAMPLE RESULTS-Negative Error: Reference - Min Value = 1000ps - 750ps = 250psPositive Error: Reference - Max Value = 1000ps - 1350ps = -350psDrive to Compare Error: Reference - \[(Min Value + Max Value)/2\] = 1000ps - \[(750ps + 1350ps )/2\] = -50ps For a sweep- Compare edgesshould be programmed far beyondthe reference signal allowingenough room to detect the latestoccurrence of a drive edge. MAX drive value- Detect thelatest occurrence of the driveedge with the earliest compareedge (last fail) MIN drive value- Detect the earliestoccurrence of the drive edge with thelatest compare edge (first pass- TimingLinearity Test 10.3.1) 50ps -100ps +100psDrive Error DriveReference Drive Edges -100ps1000ps DriveReference +100ps In this example:Drive edge error = ± 100psCompare edge error = ± 200psDrive to Compare error = - 50psThis example will illustrate hownumerical error values are obtained. Max Value- MAX is the value allcomparators are programmed towhen the last drive edge isdetected. 1350ps(Max value)SweepCompare Edges NOTE: All drive edges aredetected in parallel in pairs: pin 1& 2, 3 & 4,...n-1 & n. NOTE: All drive edges aredetected in parallel in pairs: pin 1& 2, 3 & 4,...n-1 & n. When the edges on all pins aredetected the drive to compare errorrelationship will appear asindicated here with associated errorvalues indicated. -200ps +200ps Last fail 750ps 950ps 1000ps Reference-100ps +100ps 50ps DriveReference First PassMin Value Last FailMax Value-200ps +200ps900ps 1000ps 1100ps 1350ps 750ps(Min value)SweepCompare Edges-200ps +200ps First pass -100psDrive Edges1000ps DriveReference+100ps 0ns750ps 1350ps0ns Figure A2-3Level 1 Compare Edge Error &gt;&gt; Drive Edge Error

&lt;!-- Page 19 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200027 Drive to Compare Edge Error Compare Error MIN Value- MIN is the valueall comparators areprogrammed to when the firstdrive edge is detected. For a sweep- Compare edgesshould be programmed far inadvance of the reference signalallowing enough room to detectthe earliest occurrence of a driveedge. TIMING RELATIONSHIPS, DEFINITIONS & EXAMPLE RESULTSDEFINITIONS-Reference- The programmed value of the driversDrive to Compare Error- The difference between the average of min & max for Drive and the average of min & max for Compare error.RELATIONSHIPS & EXAMPLE RESULTS-Negative Error: Reference - Min Value = 1000ps - 750ps = 250psPositive Error: Reference - Max Value = 1000ps - 1350ps = -350psDrive to Compare Error: Reference - \[(Min Value + Max Value)/2\] = 1000ps - \[(750ps + 1350ps )/2\] = -50ps For a sweep- Compare edgesshould be programmed farbeyond the reference signalallowing enough room todetect the latest occurrenceof a drive edge. MAX drive value- Detect thelatest occurrence of the driveedge with the earliest compareedge (last fail- Timing LinearityTest 10.2.1) MIN drive value- Detect the earliestoccurrence of the drive edge with thelatest compare edge (first pass- TimingLinearity Test 10.3.1) 50ps In this example:Drive edge error = ±200psCompare edge error = ±100psDrive to Compare error = - 50psThis example will illustrate hownumerical error values are obtained. MAX Value- MAX is the valueall comparators are programmedto when the last drive edge isdetected. 1350ps(Max Value) 750ps(Min value)SweepCompare Edges NOTE: All drive edges aredetected in parallel in pairs:pin 1 & 2, 3 & 4,...n-1 & n. NOTE: All drive edges aredetected in parallel in pairs: pin 1& 2, 3 & 4,...n-1 & n. 850ps 1050ps950ps 1000ps Reference 50ps750ps First PassMin valueLast FailMax value When the edges on all pins aredetected the drive to compareerror relationship will appear asindicated here with associatederror values indicated. -100ps +100ps -100ps +100ps -100ps +100ps -200psDrive Edges1000ps DriveReference+200ps -200psDrive Edges1000ps DriveReference+200ps -200ps +200ps 1000ps 1350ps800ps -200ps +200psDrive Error DriveReference Last fail Sweep+100ps-100ps First pass 0ns 750ps 0ns 12000ps DriveReference Compare Edges1350ps Figure A2-4Drive Edge Error &gt;&gt; Compare Edge Error

&lt;!-- Page 20 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 28 Example A2-5 Test Method Summary for Showing Data Entry to Table 2 for OTA CalculationLEVEL 1 Timing LinearityExt. Dly. / Mult PeriodData below representsLevel 1 edge-delayresults LEVEL 2 High Speed ClockAccuracy\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Drive Input Z TimingError Level 1(Section 10.3.5) Z to0 (Low) Timing LinearityLevel 1 (Sec.10.3.1)Positive Error:+250Negative Error:350 b) High Speed ClockTransition TimeVariation Level 2(Section 10.4.3- DriveInput Transition Timefor clock function) a) High Speed ClockDelay ErrorLevel 2 (Section 10.4.1-Drive Input TimingDelay for clockfunction) Extended DelayLevel 1 (Sec. 10.3.4)Positive Error:Negative Error: Multiple PeriodLevel 1 Optional(Sec. 10.3.6)Positive Error:Negative Error: Drive Input Z TimingError Level 1(Section 10.3.5) Z to1 (High) Drive Input Z TimingError Level 1(Section 10.3.5) 0(Low) to Z Drive Input Z TimingError Level 1(Section 10.3.5) 1(High) to Z 1) Drive Input ToCompare OutputTiming50 3) Compare OutputEdge Placement±100 2) DriveInput EdgePlacement±200Drive Input toCompare Out putTiming AccuracyTaken from 10.3.150 a) Compare OutputTime Delay ErrorLevel 2 (Section10.4.2)±100 a) Drive Input TimingDelay Error Level 2(Section 10.4.1) ±200 b) Drive InputTransition TimeVariationLevel 2 (Section10.4.3) c) Drive Input TimingCycle Jitter Level 2(Section 10.4.4) Single Point Overall Timing Accuracy (OTA) ResultsData to enter here is: A = Dr (item 2) + Cmp (item 3) + Dr-Cmp (item 1)-B = -Dr (item 2) - Cmp (item 3) + Dr-Cmp (item 1) .+250ps, 350psDrive Z TimingData belowrepresents Level 1 Z-state timing results c) High Speed ClockCycle Jitter Level 2(Section 10.4.5) d) High Speed ClockPhase Jitter Level 2(Section 10.4.6) The user of the method is advised to read Section 13,Precautions before filling in this table. -200psDrive Edges1000ps+200ps OTA Calculation:OTA = A, -BA = Dr + Cmp + Dr-Cmp200 + 100 + (-50) = 250-B = -Dr - Cmp + Dr-Cmp-200 - 100 + (-50) = -350OTA = 250ps, -350ps950ps OTA DATA CALCULATION andTABLE 2 ENTRY EXAMPLE800ps 1200psDrive edges programmedvalue of 1000ps +100ps-100psCompare Edges B- Latest drive to earliest compare: -350ps-50psBA- Earliest drive to latest compare: 250ps Compare edges programmedvalue of 1000ps A 850ps 1050ps 250ps -350ps

&lt;!-- Page 21 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200029 Example A2-6 Test Method Summary for Showing Data Entry to Table 2 for OTA CalculationLEVEL 1 Timing LinearityExt. Dly. / Mult PeriodData below representsLevel 1 edge-delayresults LEVEL 2 High Speed ClockAccuracy\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Drive Input Z TimingError Level 1(Section 10.3.5) Z to0 (Low) Timing LinearityLevel 1 (Sec.10.3.1)Positive Error:+350Negative Error:250 b) High Speed ClockTransition TimeVariation Level 2(Section 10.4.3- DriveInput Transition Timefor clock function) a) High Speed ClockDelay ErrorLevel 2 (Section 10.4.1-Drive Input TimingDelay for clockfunction) Extended DelayLevel 1 (Sec. 10.3.4)Positive Error:Negative Error: Multiple PeriodLevel 1 Optional(Sec. 10.3.6)Positive Error:Negative Error: Drive Input Z TimingError Level 1(Section 10.3.5) Z to1 (High) Drive Input Z TimingError Level 1(Section 10.3.5) 0(Low) to Z Drive Input Z TimingError Level 1(Section 10.3.5) 1(High) to Z 1) Drive Input ToCompare OutputTiming+50 3) Compare OutputEdge Placement±100 2) DriveInput EdgePlacement± 200Drive Input toCompare Out putTiming AccuracyTaken from Section10.3.1+50 a) Compare OutputTime Delay ErrorLevel 2 (Section10.4.2)± 100 a) Drive Input TimingDelay Error Level 2(Section 10.4.1) ± 200 b) Drive InputTransition TimeVariationLevel 2 (Section10.4.3) c) Drive Input TimingCycle Jitter Level 2(Section 10.4.4) Single Point Overall Timing Accuracy (OTA) ResultsData to enter here is: A = Dr (item 2) + Cmp (item 3) + Dr-Cmp (item 1)-B = -Dr (item 2) - Cmp (item 3) + Dr-Cmp (item 1) .+350ps, 250psDrive Z TimingData belowrepresents Level 1 Z-state timing results c) High Speed ClockCycle Jitter Level 2(Section 10.4.5) d) High Speed ClockPhase Jitter Level 2(Section 10.4.6) The user of the method is advised to read Section 13,Precautions before filling in this table. -200psDrive Edges1000ps+200ps OTA Calculation:OTA = A, -BA = Dr + Cmp + Dr-Cmp200 + 100 + 50 = 350-B = -Dr - Cmp + Dr-Cmp-200 - 100 + 50 = -250OTA = 350, 2501050ps OTA DATA CALCULATION andTABLE 2 ENTRY EXAMPLE800ps 1200ps Drive edges programmedvalue of 1000ps +100ps-100psCompare Edges B- Latest drive to earliest compare: -250ps50psBA- Earliest drive to latest compare: 350ps Compare edges programmedvalue of 1000ps A 950ps 1150ps 350ps-250ps

&lt;!-- Page 22 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 30 APPENDIX 3EXCEPTIONS PAGENOTE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI G80 and was approved by fulll letter ballot procedures onSeptember 3, 1999 by the North Amerian Regional Standards Committee.NOTE 2: This page is intended to capture any Digital Timing Accuracy Analysis Method exceptions the user has chosen tomake. Test Number NOTE 3: MAKE ATTACHMENTS AS NEEDEDSection 10.3.1 Timing Linearity Test(Drive Input Edge Placement)Section 10.3.4 Extended Delay Test(Compare Output Edge Placement)Section 10.3.5 Drive Input Z Timing Error(Z to 0 (Low))Section 10.3.5 Drive Input Z Timing Error(Z to 1 (High))Section 10.3.5 Drive Input Z Timing Error(0 (Low) to Z)Section 10.3.5 Drive Input Z Timing Error(1 (High) to Z) LEVEL ONE Section 10.3.6 Multiple Period Test(Optional- for on the fly timing)Section 10.4.1 Drive Input Time Delay Error(Drive Input Edge Placement)Section 10.4.2 Compare Output Time Delay Error(Compare Output Edge Placement)Section 10.4.3 Drive Input Transition Time Variation Section 10.4.4 Drive Input Timing Cycle Jitter(Short term cycle to cycle period jitter)Section 10.4.5 High Speed Clock Self Trigger Cycle Jitter(Short term cycle to cycle period jitter/clocks) LEVEL TWOSection 10.4.6 High Speed Clock Self Trigger Phase Jitter(Short term phase/duty cycle jitter/clocks)

&lt;!-- Page 23 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200031 APPENDIX 4 NOTE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI G80 and was approved by fulll letter ballot procedures onSeptember 3, 1999 by the North Amerian Regional Standards Committee. A4-1 Jitter MeasurementA4-1.1 If a jitter measurement described here is to bestatistically correct the jitter variation in the signalbeing measured must be Gausian. The measured jitterin this method will be represented as one standarddeviation (sigma) of the Gausian distribution, referredto here as the RMS jitter value. Signal Source Sampling Oscilloscope TriggerSignalInput CoaxHigh frequency power splitter Figure A4-1Signal Jitter Measurement A4-1.2 The signal being measured will have someamount of jitter. The instrumentation used to measurethe jitter will also have some amount of jitter. Toaccurately measure the jitter of a periodic signal thejitter component of the instrumentation must beaccounted for and subtracted from the signal beingmeasured.A4-1.3 Two jitter measurements are required. A jittermeasurement will be made on the signal of interest. Asecond jitter measurement will be made to determinethe instrumentation jitter. Instrumentation jitter will be subtracted from the signal measurement to obtain themost accurate representation of signal jitter.A4-1.4 A sampling oscilloscope will have an inherentdelay, typically on the order of 20ns. This representsthe time difference from the time the oscilloscope istriggered to the time when an input signal can beviewed. The key to extracting the jitter of themeasurement instrumentation is providing a setup thatallows viewing the trigger on the oscilloscope display.This is accomplished by delaying the oscilloscopetrigger to an input channel. Sampling Oscilloscope TriggerInputSignal Delay(Semi-rigid coax) High frequencypower splitter Coax Pulse Generator Output Figure A4-2Measuring Instrumentation Jitter

&lt;!-- Page 24 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 2000 32 A4-1.4.1 The amount of delay to the input channel mustbe greater than the inherent delay of the oscilloscope.A4-1.5 A high bandwidth-sampling oscilloscope withstatistical calculation capability is recommended. Inaddition, when making low jitter measurements highquality RF connectors and cables will be required. Asetup similar to that shown in Figure A4-2 is adequatefor extracting instrumentation jitter.A4-1.6 Using semi-rigid coax for the delay willminimize loss of signal. The pulse generator should beset to low frequency to maximize the pulse width. Aperiod of 10MHz with a 50ns pulse width is adequatefor an oscilloscope with an inherent delay of 20ns .The semi-rigid coax length should be chosen to have adelay slightly larger than the inherent delay of theoscilloscope. The proper amount of delay allowsviewing the trigger signal with minimal oscilloscopehorizontal delay.A4-2 ProcedureA4-2.1 A signal measurement will be made asindicated in Figure A4-1. The semi-rigid coax (delay)is not used, but the power splitter output will beconnected to the oscilloscope input. As well, the inputto the power splitter is connected to the signal beingmeasured. The scope is triggered from the input signal,and the signal being viewed is delayed from the triggerby an amount equal to the inherent delay of theoscilloscope. This measurement step provides a valuereferred to here as MEASURED RMS SIGNALJITTER, MS.17 A4-2.2 An instrumentation jitter measurement is thenmade as indicated in Figure A4-2. Per this arrangementthe signal being displayed is the same signal thattriggered the oscilloscope. That connection schemecannot produce any signal jitter between the trigger andthe signal being viewed; thus any jitter shown on theoscilloscope display represents instrumentation jitter.This measurement step provides a value referred to hereas MEASURED RMS INSTRUMENTATION JITTER,MI.A4-2.3 Since the signal jitter being measured isGausian, the sum of squares relationship is used tosubtract out the instrumentation jitter, and thus obtainACTUAL RMS SIGNAL JITTER, AS.MS = (MI 2+ AS2) 1/2 MS- Measured RMS signal jitter.MI- Measured RMS instrumentation jitter.AS- Actual RMS signal jitter. 17 Use of a loop-through sampling head is an alternative method formaking this measurement. A4-3 ExampleA4-3.1 Measured RMS signal jitter MS, the signalbeing measured, results in a 10ps measurement.A4-3.2 Measured RMS instrumentation jitter MI, thejitter of the measurement setup, results in a 5psmeasurement.A4-3.3 The actual RMS signal jitter AS is determinedfrom the relationship:MS = MI 2 + AS2) 1/2 and calculates to be:10 2 = 5 2 + AS2 100 = 25 + AS 2 75 = AS2 75 1/2 = AS8.66ps = AS (actual RMS signal jitter)Since the jitter is Gaussian, the max value of jitter isapproximately equal to 5 or 6 times the RMS value ofthe jitter. Signal Source Sampling Oscilloscope Trigger Loop through headIn Out Figure A4-3Use of a Loop-Through Sampling Head

&lt;!-- Page 25 --&gt;

SEMI G80-0200 © SEMI 200033 A4.4 Use of a Loop-Through Sampling HeadA4-4.1 This is an alternate approach to measured RMSsignal jitter. The input signal is routed through the loop-through sampling head where it is sampled and sent tothe output of the sampling head. The head output isconnected to the oscilloscope trigger. (See Figure A4-3.)A4-4.2 What is Observed When Making MS And MIMeasurements  This dialog is meant to providefurther clarification for making jitter measurements.This is an example that applies to a jitter measurementusing an oscilloscope with an inherent oscilloscopedelay of 20ns. The signal frequency is 100MHz (periodof 10ns ). The semi-rigid coax delay is set to theinherent oscilloscope delay of 20ns.A4-4.3 Measured RMS Signal Jitter, MS  For theMS measurement the observed edge occurs subsequentto the edge that triggered the oscilloscope: N N+1 N+2 N+2 This pulse triggers the oscilloscope. Observed Edge  The pulse that isdisplayed on the oscilloscope is not thesame pulse that triggered the oscilloscope. Trigger: Signal: Figure A4-4Measured RMS Signal Jitter, MS A4-4.4 The observed edge depends upon the signalfrequency; thus what is displayed is subsequent to thetrigger pulse permitting signal jitter to be observed.A4-4.5 Measured RMS Instrumentation Jitter, MI For the MI measurement the observed edge is the sameedge that triggered the oscilloscope. N1 N+1 N+2 N This pulse triggers the oscilloscope. Observed Edge  The pulse that isdisplayed on the oscilloscope is the samepulse that triggered the oscilloscope. N2 Trigger: Signal: Figure A4-5Measured RMS Instrumentation Jitter, MI A4-4.6 There is no repetitive aspect of the signal, thuswhatever jitter you observe is strictly instrumentationjitter.A4-4.7 Summary  Jitter is only observable for aperiodic signal or repetitive edge. Thus when MSmeasurements are made signal jitter is observedbecause a subsequent or repetitive signal is displayed(in addition to instrumentation jitter). When MImeasurements are made the input signal is delayed suchthat you see the same edge that trigger the oscilloscope.That creates a non-repetitive or non-periodic occurrenceof the observed signal, thus the jitter observed is strictlydue to the instrumentation. NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties orrepresentations as to the suitability of the standards setforth herein for any particular application. Thedetermination of the suitability of the standard is solelythe responsibility of the user. Users are cautioned torefer to manufacturers instructions, product labels,product data sheets, and other relevant literaturerespecting any materials mentioned herein. Thesestandards are subject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility thatcompliance with this standard may require use ofcopyrighted material or of an invention covered bypatent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMItakes no position respecting the validity of any patentrights or copyrights asserted in connection with anyitem mentioned in this standard. Users of this standardare expressly advised that determination of any suchpatent rights or copyrights, and the risk of infringementof such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 26 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 20031 SEMI G81-0703SPECIFICATION FOR MAP DATA ITEMS This specification was technically approved by the Global Automated Test Equipment Committee and is thedirect responsibility of the North American Automated Test Equipment Committee. Current edition approvedby the North American Regional Standards Committee on March 12, 2003. Initially available atwww.semi.org May 2003; to be published July 2003. Originally published October 2000; previouslypublished March 2003. 1 Purpose1.1 This document describes the data items that relateto electronic substrate mapping. 2 Scope2.1 This document applies only to substrate map dataitems.2.2 This document does not address the transmission,file naming conventions, storage or archiving ofsubstrate maps.2.3 The specification of which data items are optionaland which are required is not specified in thisdocument.2.4 The size of each data item described in thisdocument is maximum size. The actual size may befurther restricted by an application document.2.5 The order of the data items is not restricted in thisdocument. The order of the data items may be restrictedby an application document.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to addresssafety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establishappropriate safety and health practices and determinethe applicability of regulatory or other limitations priorto use. 3 Limitations3.1 There are no known limitations within the definedscope. 4 Referenced Standards4.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E5  SEMI Equipment CommunicationsStandard 2 Message Content (SECS-II)SEMI T9  Specification for Marking of Metal Lead-Frame Strips with a Two-Dimensional Data MatrixCode Symbol 4.2 IEEE Standards1 IEEE 754-1985  IEEE Standard for Binary FloatingPoint ArithmeticNOTICE: Unless otherwise indicated, all documentscited shall be the latest published versions. 5 Terminology5.1 Definitions5.1.1 bottom side  the bottom side of the substrate asdefined in the corresponding Appendix (Appendix 1, 2,or 3).5.1.2 device  the unit to which the device status codein the map is assigned including, but not limited to: die,multi-chip modules and packages.5.1.3 map  a two-dimensional array of bin codesderived from electrical test data of a substrateincluding, but not limited to: wafer, tray, strip, or tape.5.1.4 substrate  any carrier of a two-dimensionalarray of devices including, but not limited to: wafers,trays, strips, tape, panels, or boards.5.1.5 top side  the top side of the substrate as definedin the corresponding Appendix for that substrate(Appendix 1, 2, or 3). 6 Requirements6.1 This document does not define format of each dataitem specified in the following chapter. In order toimplement this specification, it requires standardizedand/or specific format definition documents.Standardized format definition documents are thosegeneric, application specific or equipment specificspecification, supplied by SEMI. They may be formatspecification, static file specification or communicationspecification, e.g. SEMI E5. Specific format definitiondocuments may de defined by supplier and user. 1 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, IEEE OperationsCenter, 445 Hoes Lane, P.O. Box 1331, Piscataway, New Jersey08855-1331, USA. Telephone: 732.981.0060; Fax: 732.981.1721.Website www.ieee.org.

&lt;!-- Page 27 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 2003 2 6.2 Also this document does not define communication protocol at all. If an implementation requires transfer dataitems defined in the following chapter, it is necessary to prepare a custom communication protocol document or tocomply with the appropriate SEMI communication standards.6.3 This document places no special requirements on the transmission, file naming conventions, storage, orarchiving of substrate maps. 7 Description7.1 The substrate map data item specifications defined in this document are shown in Table 2. The columns in thistable are described in the following sections.7.1.1 Item Name Column  the name by which the data item is referenced.7.1.2 Data Type Column  the type of the data as defined in Table 1.Table 1 Data Types and SizesType Size DefinitionString 032767 A string of ASCII characters from zero to Size characters in length.Integer 1,2,4 An integer value that may be represented by Size bytes. E.g., if Size = 2 then the value maybe 32768 to 32767.Float 4 IEEE single-precision 32-bit floating point type \[IEEE 754-1985\] 7.1.2.1 Generic data type definitions are used so that the data item definitions may be shared by several otherstandards, which may have their own distinct data type representations.7.1.3 Size Column  the maximum number of characters that may be used to represent the data.7.1.4 Description Column  describes what the data item is and what value restrictions it has.7.2 Coordinate System Conventions7.2.1 Whenever reference is made to rows, columns, X or Y they are defined as follows.7.2.2 The X axis is the horizontal axis from left to right when the substrate is rotated according to \[Orientation\] inTable 2. Columns increase along the X axis. Column zero is the column just before the left (or right, depending onOriginLocation) column containing measured devices.7.2.3 The Y axis is the vertical axis from bottom to top when the substrate is rotated according to \[Orientation\] inTable 2. Rows increase along the Y axis. Row zero is the row just before the extreme top (or bottom depending onOriginLocation) row containing measured devices.7.2.4 Columns increase along the X-axis. Rows increase along the Y-axis.Table 2 Substrate Map Data Items Item Name Data Type Size DescriptionFormatRevision String 256 Specifies the exact name and revision of the format used to represent substrate mapdata. This field can be used by a parser to automatically determine the format of theremaining substrate map data.ProductId String 256 Product identifierLotId String 32 Production lot identifier for this data.Orientation Integer 2 The orientation of the substrate in relation to the map data.This variable will increase in the right (clockwise) direction from 0°.This item may be used to specify that the map data be rotated. Since the map data isrectangular, only the values 0, 90, 180, and 270 are allowed in that case.WaferSize Integer 2 Diameter of Wafer in millimeters.DeviceSizeX Float 4 Device size on X axis in micronsDeviceSizeY Float 4 Device size on Y axis in microns

&lt;!-- Page 28 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 20033 Item Name Data Type Size DescriptionStepSizeX Float 4 The distance in microns from a reference point on one device to the same referencepoint on the adjacent device in the X direction. StepSizeX  DeviceSizeX is equal tothe street width between device in the X direction.StepSizeY Float 4 The distance in microns from a reference point on one device to the same referencepoint on the adjacent device in the Y direction. StepSizeY  DeviceSizeY is equal tothe street width between device in the Y direction.FrameId String 32 A character code that may be printed or encoded on the substrate, which uniquelyidentifies the substrate, and can be used to correlate the map with physical substrate.Rows Integer 2 The number of rows of (measured) device matrix on substrate, that is the number ofdevices on the Y-axis of the map data. It is required if the type of the map data issimple array structure.Columns Integer 2 The number of columns of (measured) device matrix on substrate, that is the numberof devices on the X-axis of the map data. It is required if the type of the map data issimple array structure.MapType String 16 Possible variations of data structure, one of which is to be chosen for passing mapdata.This document allows formats of the three types shown below.\[MapType\] = Row: Row/Column FormatExpression using the coordinate showing the head of a row as well as the number ofdevices in the row and the bin data of the relevant row.Each bin data is attached in succession to each row.Example: X, Y, N, BIN, BIN, BIN, ..., BIN(N: Number of devices)\[MapType\] = Array: Array FormatAll of a substrates bin data is expressed in a one-dimensional array form.Left to right and top down substrate map data will be set in a one-dimensional array.Example: BIN, BIN, BIN, ...\[MapType\] = Device: Coordinate FormatExpressed by XY coordinates of each device on a substrate as well as bin data.Even when using this format, to prevent omission of data, it is best to set bin data forall devices tested in front end processing.Example: X, Y, BIN, ..., X, Y, BINThe MAP coordinates set here are values for the state with the substrate orientationflat rotated to the angle given by \[Orientation\].Appendix 1 contains diagrams that illustrate each \[MapType\].NOTE: MAP coordinates can also be negative values.HeadingDeviceX Integer 2 X coordinate of the heading device of a row in the map data.This item is used when \[MapType\] = Row.HeadingDeviceY Integer 2 Y coordinate of the heading device of a row in the map data.This item is used when \[MapType\] = Row.DeviceRow Integer 2 Number of the devices on a row in the map data.This item is used when \[MapType\] = Row.DeviceX Integer 2 X coordinate of the device in the map data.This item is used when \[MapType\] = Device.DeviceY Integer 2 Y coordinate of the device in the map data.This item is used when \[MapType\] = Device.

&lt;!-- Page 29 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 2003 4 Item Name Data Type Size DescriptionBinType String 16 The format in which the bin code for each device will be represented in the \[Map\].The choices are as follows:\[BinType\] = Ascii: Single ASCII character (1 byte per device)\[BinType\] = Decimal: 3 digit integer from 000 to 255 (1 byte per device)\[BinType\] = HexaDecimal: 2 digit Hexadecimal value from 00 to FF (1 byte perdevice)\[BinType\] = Integer2: 4 digit Hexadecimal value from 0000 to FFFF (2 bytes perdevice)NOTE 1: For readability when \[BinType\] = Decimal there must be spaces addedbetween each device and each row of devices should be on a new line.NOTE 2: When \[BinType\] = Ascii or Hexadecimal or Integer2 there must not bespaces between each device and for readability, each row should be on a new line.ReferenceDeviceX Integer 2 X coordinate of the reference device to align device matrix on physical substrate withthe map data.ReferenceDeviceY Integer 2 Y coordinate of the reference device to align device matrix on physical substrate withthe map data.RefDevicePosX Float 4 Offset in m of the center of a reference device in the X-direction from the center ofsubstrate.RefDevicePosY Float 4 Offset in m of the center of a reference device in the Y-direction from the center ofsubstrate.MapName String 32 A name that describes the purpose of the bin codes in the map. Possible examplesinclude: CellStatus, DefectCode, MarkGrade, PackageGrade, SortGrade.MapVersion String 32 The version is used to distinguish between multiple versions of maps for the samesubstrate with the same MapName.BinCode Integer 1 A bin category from 0 to 255, other that the value assigned to \[NullBin\], that may beassigned to a device. It should be represented according to \[BinType\].NOTE: BinCode and NullBin may take on values from 0 to 255 is represented asAscii, Decimal, Hexadecimal, or Binary, according to BinType. See definition ofBinType for more information.BinCount Integer 4 The number of devices on the substrate with the specified \[BinCode\].BinQuality String 16 Describes the quality of the specified \[BinCode\]. The following values are reservedfor the data item:Pass  Indicates a quality that has commercial valueFail  Indicates a quality that does not have commercial valueOther values defined by an application.BinDescription String 256 A description of the specified \[BinCode\], e.g. 100MHz.NullBin Integer 1 Code to indicate no device or not measured device in \[Data\]. It should be representedaccording to \[BinType\].SupplierName String 256 Name of the supplier of the substrate.OriginLocation Integer 1 Coordinate system on substrate to address devices. Location of the datum point or theorigin of the coordinates shall be one of the following:0 = Center device\*  top side1 = Upper right  top side2 = Upper left  top side3 = Lower left  top side\*\*4 = Lower right  top side5 = Center device\*  bottom side6 = Upper right  bottom side7 = Upper left  bottom side8 = Lower left  bottom side9 = Lower right  bottom side\* Center device is X = (row count + 1), Y = (column count + 1)/2.\*\* Default value is 3 (= Lower left  top side) if this item is not present.

&lt;!-- Page 30 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 20035 Item Name Data Type Size DescriptionCreateDate String 16 Date and time when the map data is acquired: formatted as YYYYMMDDhhmmsscc(year-month-date-hour-minute-second-centisecond).Status String 16 Status of map data supplying process or preceding process.Label String 256 Name of a special parameter.SupplierValue String 256 Value of a special parameter.SlotNumber Integer 2 This identifies the slot in the carrier in which the substrate is placed.SubstrateNumber Integer 2 Identifies the substrate within a lot.GoodDevices Integer 4 The total number of good devices on the substrate. The definition of good isbeyond the scope of this document.SubstrateType String 16 The type of substrate. The choices are as follows:\[SubstrateType\] = Wafer\[SubstrateType\] = Strip\[SubstrateType\] = TraySubstrateId String 32 A character code that may be printed or encoded on the substrate, which uniquelyidentifies the substrate, and can be used to correlate the map with the physicalsubstrate.CarrierType String 16 The type of substrate carrier. The choices are as follows:\[CarrierType\] = Cassette\[CarrierType\] = MagazineCarrierId String 32 A character code that may be printed or encoded on the substrate carrier, whichuniquely identifies the substrate carrier.LastModified String 16 Date and time when the map data was last modified: formatted asYYYYMMDDhhmmsscc (year-month-date-hour-minute-second-centisecond)NOTE 1: A set of above items is prepared for each single substrate to make it possible to consolidate more than one lot in a cassette. 7.3 Example

&lt;!-- Page 31 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 2003 6 ReferenceDeviceX="4"ReferenceDeviceY="-5"RefDevicePosX="2"RefDevicePosY="2"/&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 32 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 20037 APPENDIX 1WAFER MAP NOTICE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI G81 and was approved by full letter ballotprocedures on August 27, 2001.A1-1 This appendix shows how the map data items may be applied to wafers as well as some additional informationspecific to this substrate type. See Figures A1-1 through A1-8.ORIGIN Column Row 0 1 2 3 401234 WAFER3 3 33 11 11 NUMBER:BIN DATA 2 222 22 DATA STRUCTURECol. Row. CHIPQTY. Bin Bin DATA EX.0002 0001 0003 3 1 3 0001 0002 0004 3 1 Figure A1-1aRow/Column Format (MapType = Row) ORIGIN Column Row 0 1 2 3 401234 3 2 33 11 11 NUMBER:BIN DATA 2 222 22 DATA STRUCTURE Bin Bin Bin  Bin Bin Bin DATA EX.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 1 3 0 31 COLUM NUMBER=5 0 0 0 0 00 0000 Row=0Col=0 Col=1 Col=2 Col=0 Col=1Col=nRow=1 Figure A1-1bArray Format (MapType = Array) Row 0 1 2 3 401234 11 11 NUMBER:BIN DATA 2222 22 DATA STRUCTURECol. Row. Bin  Col. Row. Bin DATA EX.0002 0001 3 0003 0001 1 0004 0001 2 ColumnORIGIN 3 3 23 Figure A1-1cCoordinate Format (MapType = Device)

&lt;!-- Page 33 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 2003 8 0 deg. 90 deg. 180 deg. 270 deg. Figure A1-2Orientation of the Wafer Flat or Notch (Orientation) FILMFRAMENOTCH 0 deg. 90 deg. 180 deg. 270 deg. Figure A1-3Orientation of the Wafer Flat or Notch on the Film Frame +Y +X WAFER CENTER REFERENCE CHIP CENTER -x y Figure A1-4Reference Device Position (RefDevicePosX and RefDevicePosY)

&lt;!-- Page 34 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 20039 FRAME IDWAFER ID FILM FRAME WAFER Figure A1-5Example of WaferID and FrameID Position ORIGIN Column Row 0 1 2 3 401234 Map Axis Origin Position Figure A1-6(Ex.) Map Coordinates System (OriginLocation = Top Left Top Side) +Y +X x y Figure A1-7Chip Size Coordinates

&lt;!-- Page 35 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 2003 10 0 Y X Type: BottomLeft 0 Y X Type: TopLeft 0X Y Type: TopRight 0X Y Type: BottomRight 0 X Y Type: Center Figure A1-8Wafer Coordinate to Address Devices (OriginLocation)

&lt;!-- Page 36 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 200311 APPENDIX 2STRIP MAP NOTICE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI G81 and was approved by full letter ballotprocedures on August 27, 2001.A2-1 This appendix shows how the map data items may be applied to strips as well as some additional informationspecific to this substrate type.A2-2 The StripID shall follow the SEMI T9 specification, when applicable, or may be user definable by the factory.A2-3 For any given process there must be a way to ensure correct orientation of the strip. The end user isresponsible for providing a master manufacturing drawing showing the top side of the strip. This drawing must showany special markings or patterns that are needed to reliably flip and rotate a physical strip until it is oriented thesame as the drawing. Figure A2-1 defines what is meant by top side and hence bottom side. It also defines what ismeant by upper, lower and left and right.A2-4 Each strip type will have a factory defined value for OriginLocation. This is the origin reference for the row 1,column 1 location on the strip. The factory origin, OriginLocation is selected as one of four corners by the factoryhost system. The row and column index will be referenced from the selected reference. This information will beprovided to the equipment by the host in each strip map download scenario.1 = Upper right (UR) top side2 = Upper left (UL) top side3 = Lower left (LL) top side4 = Lower right (LR) top side6 = Upper right (UR) bottom side7 = Upper left (UL) bottom side8 = Lower left (LL) bottom side9 = Lower right (LR) bottom side Row Row Column Row RowColumn Column Column Std Process Direction 12 3 4Top Side Row Row Column Row RowColumn Column Column Std Process Direction 67 8 9Bottom Side Figure A2-1Factory Origin Settings

&lt;!-- Page 37 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 2003 12 APPENDIX 3TRAY MAP ORIENTATION NOTICE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI G81 and was approved by full letter ballotprocedures on August 27, 2001.A3-1 This appendix shows how the map data items may be applied to JEDEC trays as well as some additionalinformation specific to this substrate type.A3-2 The X-axis (Column) is assigned to the long axis of the JEDEC tray; the Y-axis (Row) is assigned to the shortaxis of the tray. This corresponds to Cartesian coordinate 1 (in this way all coordinate positions can be expressedin positive integer values). For the origin of the tray, the pocket nearest the bevel (at the bottom left corner of thetray in Figure A3-1 below) is defined as coordinate location 0,0. (Row/Column).A3-3 The following values for OriginLocation apply to the JEDEC tray:1 = Upper right (UR) top side2 = Upper left (UL) top side3 = Lower left (LL) top side4 = Lower right (LR) top side Column Row Row Row Row Column Column Column Upper right top side Lower right top side Upper left top side Lower left top sideFigure A3-1OriginLocation 180 Deg. 270 Deg.90 Deg. 0 Deg. Figure A3-2Tray Orientation

&lt;!-- Page 38 --&gt;

SEMI G81-0703 © SEMI 2000, 200313 NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standard set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturers instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature respecting any materials mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility that compliance with this standard may require use of copyrightedmaterial or of an invention covered by patent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMI takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any item mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 39 --&gt;

SEMI G82-0301 E © SEMI 20011 SEMI G82-0301E PROVISIONAL SPECIFICATION FOR 300 mm LOAD PORT FORFRAME CASSETTES IN BACKEND PROCESS This specification was technically approved by the Global Assembly & Packaging Committee and is thedirect responsibility of the Japanese Packaging Committee. Current edition approved by the JapaneseRegional Standards Committee on December 1, 2000. Initially available at www.semi.org December 2001,to be published March 2002.E This document was editorially modified in November 2001 to correct a cosmetic error. Changes were madeto Figure 2. 1 Purpose1.1 This specification defines dimensionalrequirements for the load port of frame cassette for 300mm wafer in backend process equipment. It is intendedto promote a uniform physical interface betweenequipment and the factory, to facilitate the use ofautomated frame cassette transport systems, and/or tomeet ergonomic requirements for manually loadedequipment. 2 Scope2.1 This is a provisional standard covering equipmentfor 300 mm frame cassette only. The provisional statusis dictated by the immaturity of designs for 300 mmequipment and additional specifications which are notdefined yet.2.2 These standards do not purport to address safetyissues, if any, associated with their use. It is theresponsibility of the user of these standards to establishappropriate safety and health practices and determinethe applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 3 Limitations3.1 This standard is not intended for use in backendexcept frame cassette for 300 mm wafers. This standarddoes not address direct loading/unloading of vacuumload locks. Requirements of such interfaces may differfrom those in this document. 4 Referenced Standards4.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E15  Specification for Tool Load PortSEMI E15.1  Specification for 300 mm Load PortSEMI E57  Mechanical Specification for kinematicCouplings Used to Align and Support 300 mm WaferCarriersSEMI E64  Specification for 300 mm Cart to SEMIE15.1 Docking Interface Port SEMI G77  Specification for Frame Cassette for 300mm Wafers 5 Terminology5.1 Please see SEMI G77 for definitions of thefollowing terms used in this specification:5.1.1 bilateral datum plane5.1.2 conveyor rails5.1.3 facial datum plane5.1.4 frame cassette5.1.5 horizontal datum plane5.1.6 tape frame5.2 Please see SEMI E15 for definitions of thefollowing terms used in this specification:5.2.1 load depth5.2.2 load face plane5.2.3 load height5.2.4 load port5.2.5 spacing5.2.6 tool5.3 frame cassette centroid  a datum representing thetheoretical location of the center of a stack of tapeframes in the frame cassette. 6 Ordering Information6.1 The following items require communicationbetween the tool supplier and user and shall be includedin any request for quotation or purchase order:6.1.1 If the tool has multiple load ports, provide thespacing, S, between frame cassette centroids (see SEMIE15).6.1.2 Specify what frame cassette (e.g. optionalcomposition, see SEMI G77) is to be accommodated bythe load port (see SEMI E15).

&lt;!-- Page 40 --&gt;

SEMI G82-0301 E © SEMI 2001 2 7 Requirements7.1 The dimensional requirements for the load port aregiven in Table 1 with reference to the figures of thisdocument. Although the frame cassette transportsystems shown in these figures appear similar tooverhead monorails, they are intended to represent anytype of transport system (AGV, PGV, conveyor,overhead track, etc.).7.2 The dimensional requirements for the placement ofthe frame cassette on the load port are given in Table 1with reference to the figures of this document.7.3 The tape frames are to be oriented horizontally atthe time they are placed on the load port.7.3.1 The frame cassette shall be loaded and unloadedwith its front parallel to and away from the load faceplane (see Figure 1).7.4 Dimension H is nominally 900 mm, fullyadjustable at installation over the range of 890 to 910mm. The precision with which the load port heightmust be maintained is dictated by the needs of theframe cassette delivery system.7.5 The load port must nominally be at 900 mm, and itmust be open from above to facilitate automatic framecassette delivery from an overhead transport system.The open volume required for vertical delivery isdefined by a projection of the load port area, includingthe area required for C1 and C2 clearances, projectedupward to the top of the tool. Note that this conditionneed only be met when the tool is being loaded. Forexample, the load port may be formed by a surface thatextends outward during loading to provide overheadaccess.7.6 As shown in Figure 2, the maximum allowableheight of an obstruction on the load port over which theframe cassette must be lifted (before being set down onthe kinematic couplings) is H1. Examples of suchobstructions include alignment devices andidentification tag readers as well as the kinematiccouplings themselves. Below H1 above the horizontaldatum plane, clearances C1 and C2 no longer apply.7.6.1 Two exclusion volumes on the left and right sideof the load port must also be kept clear so that fork liftsor conveyors may be used. Each exclusion volumeextends from the load face plane to D0 beyond thefacial datum plane and extends H0 below the horizontaldatum plane between W1 and W2 from the bilateraldatum plane. 7.6.2 The load port that advances the frame cassettefrom the undocked position (where the frame cassette isinitially delivered to the load port) to the dockedposition (where the frame cassette is ready for frameextraction or insertion) must reserve an exclusionvolume that is intended for (but not limited to)containing automated units that read or write to an IDtag on the rear of the frame cassette in the undockedposition (where the frame cassette is initially deliveredto the load port). If no reader/writer unit is installed,the exclusion volume may be covered by a panel.NOTE 1: This section is incomplete and requirements will beadded to the standard once the requirements and dimensionshave been fully defined. 7.7 Clearances C1 and C2 are defined with respect tothe maximum dimensions of the frame cassette (seeSEMI G77). To prevent interference with overheadtransport systems on the same or adjacent load port, it isrecommended that floor-based transport vehicles do notexceed clearances C1 and C2 when picking up orplacing the frame cassette on the load port.7.8 Dimension S specifies the recommended minimumspacing between frame cassette centroids. In any case,if S violates C1, then C1 takes precedence.7.9 To add clearance for overhead frame cassettetransport, no part of the tool in front of the planedefined by C2 may be higher than H2 from the floor.The volume below H2 may contain the frame cassettestored in an internal buffer by the tool.7.10 The load port must provide the option to use theconveyor rails for frame cassette loading. At the timeof frame cassette transfer, the conveyor rails must bepositioned at HC3 as shown in Figure 2. When not inuse, the conveyor rails must be lowered below the forklift exclusion zone. 8 Related DocumentsSEMI E1.9  Provisional Mechanical Specification forCassettes Used to Transport and Store 300 mm WafersSEMI E47.1  Provisional Mechanical Specificationfor Boxes and Pods Used to Transport and Store 300mm WafersSEMI E72  Specification and Guide for 300 mmEquipment Footprint, Height, and WeightSEMI G74  Specification for Tape Frame for 300mm Wafers

&lt;!-- Page 41 --&gt;

SEMI G82-0301 E © SEMI 20013 Table 1 Dimensional Requirements for 300 mm Load Port Dimension Application Value, mm (in.) NotesC1 minimum 75 (3.0)C2 minimum 30 (1.2)D range 250 010+ (9.8 04.0+ )D0 minimum 110 (4.33)H nominal 900 (35.4) 1H0 minimum 15 (0.59)H1 maximum 25 (1.0)H2 maximum 2600 (102.4 )HC3 range 32 0.20+ (1.26 1.00+ ) 2482 (19.0) 3S minimum 555 (21.9) 4W1 maximum 130 (5.12)W2 minimum 205 (8.07)NOTE 1: This value is ergonomically compatible with the proposed 13 frame cassette and may not be ergonomically compatible with theproposed 25 frame cassette. The proposed 25 frame cassette may require assisted loading. H to be fully adjustable at installation over the range of890 to 910 mm (35 to 35.8 inches).NOTE 2: To avoid confusion, HC3 is used instead of H3 because H3 stands for another dimension in SEMI E15.1.NOTE 3: Frame cassette (see SEMI G77) without manual side handlesNOTE 4: Frame cassette (see SEMI G77) with manual side handles9 Table 1 Dimensions Definition9.1 See SEMI E15 for definitions of the following terms used in this specification:9.1.1 C19.1.2 C29.1.3 H9.1.4 H19.1.5 S9.2 D  allowable load depth to frame cassette centroid.9.3 D0  minimum rear clearance of equipment boundary below H1 from facial datum plane.9.4 H0  minimum height from the bottom of equipment boundary below H1 to horizontal datum plane.9.5 H2  maximum overhead track clearance from the floor.9.6 HC3  allowable height of conveyor rail from horizontal datum plane.9.7 W1  maximum side clearance of equipment boundary below H1 from bilateral datum plane.9.8 W2  minimum side clearance of equipment boundary below H1 from bilateral datum plane.

&lt;!-- Page 42 --&gt;

SEMI G82-0301 E © SEMI 2001 4 (frame cassette with handles) equipmentboundary facialdatumplane framecassttefront loadfaceplane dockinginterface(seeSEMI E64) bilateraldatumplanes framecassette horizontaldatumplane floor H= 900 H1&lt; 25 D = 250 C2&gt; 30 &gt; 482(frame cassette without handles)&gt; 555 C1&gt; 75 +010S H2&lt; 2600 overheadtrackclearance Figure 1Load Port Requirements

&lt;!-- Page 43 --&gt;

SEMI G82-0301 E © SEMI 20015 bilateraldatum plane horizontaldatum planeH0 &gt; 15 example of conveyorrail application conveyor rail is loweredbelow fork lift exclusion zone W1 &lt; 130 W2 &gt; 205 equipment boundaryabove H1 frame cassette C1 &gt; 75 C1 &gt; 75 W1 &lt; 130 W2 &gt; 205 equipment boundary bilateraldatum plane facial datum plane load face plane D0 &gt; 110 equipment boundaryabove H1equipment boundarybelow H1C2 &gt; 30 H1 &lt; 25 Top Front HC3 =32+20 Figure 2Trenches and Conveyor Rails

&lt;!-- Page 44 --&gt;

SEMI G82-0301 E © SEMI 2001 6 NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standard set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturers instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature respecting any materials or equipment mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change withoutnotice.The users attention is called to the possibility that compliance with this standard may require use of copy-rightedmaterial or of an invention covered by patent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMI takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any item mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 45 --&gt;

SEMI G83-0301 © SEMI 20011 SEMI G83-0301SPECIFICATION FOR BAR CODE MARKING OF PRODUCTPACKAGES This specification was technically approved by the Global Assembly & Packaging Committee and is thedirect responsibility of the Japanese Packaging Committee. Current edition approved by the JapaneseRegional Standards Committee on December 1, 2000. Initially available at www.semi.org January 2001; tobe published March 2001. 1 Purpose1.1 This specification describes th e area needed foradding bar codes, the bar code specifications, and thecode notation format for direct and indirect materialproduct packages (unit packs) for semiconductorpackaging.1.2 The following are the goals of this specification: Quality control using computers Prevention of mistakes created by human error Material control at the manufacturing site1.3 The following is not a goal of this specification: Purchasing control 2 Scope2.1 This specification is to be used for direct andindirect materials relating to packaging materials.2.2 This specification is to be used for productpackages only.2.3 This standard does not purport to address safetyissues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establishappropriate and safety health practices and determinethe applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 3 Referenced Standards3.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI G71  Specification for Barcode Marking ofIntermediate Containers for Packaging Materials 3.2 AIM Specifications1USS-39  Universal Symbol Specification code 39USS-128  Universal Symbol Specification code 128 3.3 ANSI Specifications2ANSI X3.182  Bar code Print Quality - Guideline 1 AIM International Inc., 11860 Sunrise Valley Drive, Suite 100,Reston, VA 20191, tel 703.391.7621, fax 703.391.76242 American National Standards Institute, 11 West 42nd Street, NewYork, NY 10036, tel 212.642.4900, fax 212.398.0023 NOTE 1: As listed or revised, all documents cited shall be thelatest publications of adopted standards. 4 Terminology4.1 Many of the items relating to b ar code technologyare defined in the AIM Glossary of Terms, ANSIX3.182 (Bar code Print Quality Guidelines).4.1.1 data field  field (area) for ad ding a bar code toa product package.4.1.2 direct material  components and parts thatmake up a semiconductor package. Examples includelead frames, molding compounds, bonding wires, diebonding materials, etc.4.1.3 HRI (Human Readable Identif ication) characters that can be read by a human.4.1.4 indirect material  suppleme ntary materials andparts used during processing but that do not make up asemiconductor package. Examples include bondingcapillaries, dicing blades, etc.4.1.5 intermediate container  con tainer that holdsone or more product packages for product/orderseparation in a shipping container or final container.4.1.6 product package  the smalle st package format,made by a single material. Also called a unit pack.4.1.7 shipping pack  package or s hippingcontainer/final container (see Figure 1) that is strongenough for industrial use for product packaging,storage, and shipping. Shipping Pack Intermediate container Product package (unit pack) Figure 1Package Form Regulations

&lt;!-- Page 46 --&gt;

SEMI G83-0301 © SEMI 2001 2 5 Requirements5.1 Data Field5.1.1 Length is 42 mm or greater, he ight is 15 mm orgreater (see Figure 2 and Table 2).5.1.2 The noted content bar code is HRI.5.2 Bar Code5.2.1 Bar code character  Bar cod e charactersspecified by AIM USS-39 or AIM USS-128 shall beused.5.2.2 Printing quality  according to ANSI X3.182Bar code Print Quality Guidelines.5.2.3 Code dimensions  the bar co de dimensionswill be as listed in Table 1.5.2.4 Restrictions on use of Code 12 8  use only codeset B. Also, do not use shift characters within data.5.2.5 The data digit count will be fro m 15 to 26(excluding start/stop characters and check characters). 5.2.6 Use check character.5.3 HRI ( Human Readable Identi fication )5.3.1 Just below the bar code located in the data field,a field for HRI characters is noted.5.3.2 The HRI height will be 3.0 mm or greater.5.3.3 The space between the HRI an d bar code shall be1.0 mm or greater (see Figure 2 and Table 2).5.4 Data Contents5.4.1 Includes items listed in Table 3 .5.4.2 The sequence, from left to righ t is as follows: theproduct recognition number, manufacturing date, sub-lot number, and lot number.5.4.3 Product recognition number an d lot number shallbe included.5.4.4 Manufacture date and sub-lot n umber shall bewritten in fixed digits. Remaining unused digits shallbe filled by minus codes -. Figure 2Data Field Dimensions and Placement Table 1 Code DimensionsCode 39, Code 128 DimensionsMinimum element width 0.15 mm or greater.Code 39 wide bar width Greater than 2 times, but less than 3 times the minimum element width.Gap between characters Minimum element width or greater.Character height 8.0 mm or greater.Quiet zone 10 times or greater than the minimum element size (before and after the bar code). Table 2 Data Field Dimensions Item DimensionsData field length A ≥ 42 mmData field height B ≥ 15 mmBar code height C ≥ 8 mmHRI character height D ≥ 3 mmSpace between bar code and HRI E ≥ 1 mm

&lt;!-- Page 47 --&gt;

SEMI G83-0301 © SEMI 20013 Table 3 Data Contents (see Appendix 1) Field Name ProductRecognition No.Manufacturing Date Sub-Lot No. Lot No. Meaning Code used byuser mainly tocharacterizeproducts. Date the material was manufactured Code forcharacterizing theproduct package Code used bysupplier mainly tocharacterize products Number ofdigits5 to 12 3 2 5 to 9 Note No regulations. 1st digit: Last digit of Gregoriancalendar year.2nd digit: Month indication, note that A= October, B = November, C =December.3rd digit: Day indication, note that A =the tenth, B = the eleventh, C = thetwelfth, ... U = the thirtieth, V = thethirty-first. No regulations. No regulations.

&lt;!-- Page 48 --&gt;

SEMI G83-0301 © SEMI 2001 4 APPENDIX 1 NOTE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI G83 and was approved by full letter ballot procedures onDecember 1, 2000 by the Japanese Regional Standards Committee.This information explains AIM Specifications listed in Section 3.1 and examples of Data Contents specified in Table 3. A1-1 AIM USS-39A1-1.1 Figure A1-1 shows the AIM USS-39 characters and bar patterns. Figure A1-1AIM USS-39 A1-2 AIM USS-128A1-2.1 The AIM USS-128 characters and bar patterns are shown in Figure A1-2. Areas enclosed by bold linesindicate the code used with this specification.

&lt;!-- Page 49 --&gt;

SEMI G83-0301 © SEMI 20015 Figure A1-2AIM USS-128

&lt;!-- Page 50 --&gt;

SEMI G83-0301 © SEMI 2001 6 A1-3 Example of Data ContentsA1-3.1 The items shown in Figures A1-3 and A1-4 aredata contents of bar code that comply with thisspecification. ManufacturingDate Sub-Lot No. ProductRecognitionNo. Hexadecimal:#109 Lot No. November 20, 1999 Z DR 1 1 N 9 B K 6 T X 0 2 4 Figure A1-3Example of Data Contents ManufacturingDate Sub-Lot No. ProductRecognitionNo. unused Lot No. November, 1999 Z -R 1 1 N 9 B - - T X 0 2 4 ( Date unused ) Figure A1-4Example of Data Contents NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representa-tions as to the suitability of the standard set forth hereinfor any particular application. The determination of thesuitability of the standard is solely the responsibility ofthe user. Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturersinstructions, product labels, product data sheets, andother relevant literature respecting any materials orequipment mentioned herein. These standards aresubject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility thatcompliance with this standard may require use ofcopyrighted material or of an invention covered bypatent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMItakes no position respecting the validity of any patentrights or copyrights asserted in connection with anyitem mentioned in this standard. Users of this standardare expressly advised that determination of any suchpatent rights or copyrights, and the risk of infringementof such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.