---
title: "SEMI Chapter 074"
description: "SEMI标准文档"
sidebar_label: "SEMI Chapter 074"
sidebar_position: 74
tags: ['SEMI', 'Standard']
custom_props:
  source_type: 'pdf'
  source_file: 'semi-chapter-074.pdf'
  chapter: 74
  page_count: 1
---

import PdfDownloadCard from '@site/src/components/PdfDownloadCard';
import PdfViewer from '@site/src/components/PdfViewer';

<PdfDownloadCard
  pdfLink="/pdfs/semi/074.pdf"
  pdfSize="N/A"
  title="SEMI Chapter 074"
  description="SEMI标准文档，共1页"
/>

---

## 📖 查看PDF原文档（包含完整图表和格式）

<PdfViewer pdfPath="/pdfs/semi/074.pdf" />



&lt;!-- Page 1 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 200513 Table 20 Map Upload Parameter Dictionary Parameter Name Description Format: Possible valuesMapData The MapData to upload.The MapData may contain one or more substrates.Text.Other standards that define an implementationof this service and reference this standard willdefine how the MapData is represented intext. Table 21 Map Upload Service Definition Parameter Req/Ind CommentMapData M The MapData to be uploaded. The MapData may contain one or more substrates.

&lt;!-- Page 2 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 14 APPENDIX 1WAFER MAP NOTICE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI E142 and was approved by full letter ballotprocedures on December 10, 2004.A1-1 This appendix shows how the map data items may be applied to wafers as well as some additional informationspecific to this substrate type. See Figures A1-1 through A1-8.ORIGIN Column Row 0 1 2 3 401234 WAFER3 3 33 11 11 NUMBER:BIN DATA 2 222 22 DATA STRUCTURECol. Row. CHIPQTY. Bin Bin DATA EX.0002 0001 0003 3 1 3 0001 0002 0004 3 1 Figure A1-1aRow/Column Format ORIGIN Column Row 0 1 2 3 401234 3 2 33 11 11 NUMBER:BIN DATA 2 222 22 DATA STRUCTURE Bin Bin Bin  Bin Bin Bin DATA EX.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 1 3 0 31 COLUM NUMBER=5 0 0 0 0 00 0000 Row=0Col=0 Col=1 Col=2 Col=0 Col=1Col=nRow=1 Figure A1-1bArray Format Row 0 1 2 3 401234 11 11 NUMBER:BIN DATA 2222 22 DATA STRUCTURECol. Row. Bin  Col. Row. Bin DATA EX.0002 0001 3 0003 0001 1 0004 0001 2 ColumnORIGIN 3 3 23 Figure A1-1cCoordinate Format

&lt;!-- Page 3 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 200515 0 deg. 90 deg. 180 deg. 270 deg. Figure A1-2Orientation of the Wafer Flat or Notch (Orientation) FILMFRAMENOTCH 0 deg. 90 deg. 180 deg. 270 deg. Figure A1-3Orientation of the Wafer Flat or Notch on the Film Frame +Y +X WAFER CENTER REFERENCE CHIP CENTER -x y Figure A1-4Reference Device Position

&lt;!-- Page 4 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 16 FRAME IDWAFER ID FILM FRAME WAFER Figure A1-5Example of WaferID and FrameID Position ORIGIN Column Row 0 1 2 3 401234 Map Axis Origin Position Figure A1-6(Ex.) Map Coordinates System (OriginLocation = Top Left Top Side) +Y +X x y Figure A1-7Device Size Coordinates

&lt;!-- Page 5 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 200517 0 Y X LowerLeftUpRight 0 Y X 0X Y0X Y 0 X Y UpperLeftDownRightUpperRightDownLeftLowerRightUpLeftCenterUpRightFigure A1-8Wafer Coordinate to Address Devices (OriginLocation)

&lt;!-- Page 6 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 18 APPENDIX 2STRIP MAP NOTICE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI E142 and was approved by full letter ballotprocedures on December 10, 2004.A2-1 This appendix shows how the map data items may be applied to strips as well as some additional informationspecific to this substrate type.A2-2 The StripID shall follow the SEMI T9 specification, when applicable, or may be user definable by the factory.A2-3 For any given process there must be a way to ensure correct orientation of the strip. The end user isresponsible for providing a master manufacturing drawing showing the top side of the strip. This drawing must showany special markings or patterns that are needed to reliably flip and rotate a physical strip until it is oriented thesame as the drawing. Figure A2-1 defines what is meant by top side and hence bottom side. It also defines what ismeant by upper, lower and left and right.A2-4 Each strip type will have a factory defined value for OriginLocation. This is the origin reference for the row 1,column 1 location on the strip. The factory origin, OriginLocation is selected as one of four corners by the factoryhost system. The row and column index will be referenced from the selected reference. This information will beprovided to the equipment by the host in each strip map download scenario.1 = Upper right (UR) top side2 = Upper left (UL) top side3 = Lower left (LL) top side4 = Lower right (LR) top side6 = Upper right (UR) bottom side7 = Upper left (UL) bottom side8 = Lower left (LL) bottom side9 = Lower right (LR) bottom side Y Y X -Y -YX -X -X Std Process Direction 12 3 4Top Side Y Y X -Y -YX -X -X Std Process Direction 67 8 9Bottom Side Figure A2-1Strip OriginLocation

&lt;!-- Page 7 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 200519 180 Deg. 0 Deg. 270 Deg.90 Deg. Figure A2-1Strip Orientation

&lt;!-- Page 8 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 20 APPENDIX 3TRAY MAP ORIENTATION NOTICE: The material in this appendix is an official part of SEMI E142 and was approved by full letter ballotprocedures on December 10, 2004.A3-1 This appendix shows how the map data items may be applied to JEDEC trays as well as some additionalinformation specific to this substrate type.A3-2 The X-axis (Column) is assigned to the long axis of the JEDEC tray; the Y-axis (Row) is assigned to the shortaxis of the tray. This corresponds to Cartesian coordinate 1. For the origin of the tray, the pocket nearest the bevel(at the bottom left corner of the tray in Figure A3-1 below) is defined as coordinate location 0,0. (Row/Column).A3-3 The following values for OriginLocation apply to the JEDEC tray:1 = Upper right (UR) top side2 = Upper left (UL) top side3 = Lower left (LL) top side4 = Lower right (LR) top side X -Y Y -Y Y -X X -X Upper right top side Lower right top side Upper left top side Lower left top sideFigure A3-1OriginLocation 180 Deg. 270 Deg.90 Deg. 0 Deg. Figure A3-2Tray Orientation

&lt;!-- Page 9 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 200521 RELATED INFORMATION 1MAP EXAMPLES NOTICE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI E142 and was derived from the North AmericanInformation & Control Committee. This related information was approved for publication by full letter ballotprocedures on December 10, 2004. R1-1 Wafer Map ExampleR1-1.1 The example MapData below is for three wafers that all share the same layout. The layout includes an FDItarget, used for alignment, and an array of devices.Wafer1 includes ReferenceDevices and BinDefinitions. Wafer2 and Wafer3 do not.Wafer1 uses the Row/Column map representation type including null bin devices.Wafer2 uses the Row/Column map representation type excluding null bin devices.Wafer3 uses the Array map representation type.Wafer4 uses the Coordinate map representation type. Product1Lot1

&lt;!-- Page 10 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 22 .12.1112.21.12111221.12.1112.21.12111221 R1-2 Strip Map ExampleR1-2.1 The example strip map below contains a more complex nested layout, one strip substrate, and three datamaps.

&lt;!-- Page 11 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 200523 .111121111.111111121.112111111Device1Device2 R1-2.2 Figure R1-1 shows a portion of the layout for the strip in the example above. The strip contains SRAMdevices with Flash devices stacked on top of them.R1-2.3 Figure R1-2 illustrates one DeviceId element of the map.R1-2.4 Figure R1-3 illustrates one Transfer element of the map.

&lt;!-- Page 12 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 2005 24 SRAM FlashFlash 30.0075.0078.00 33.0046.6749.67 3.005.00 SRAM LayoutDimension (X=32, Y =8)LowerLef t (X=7.00, Y =8.33)StepSize (X=78.00, Y =49.67)Dev iceSize (X=75.00, Y =46.67)Height = 5.00ZOrder = 0 25.00 7.00 8.33 Flash LayoutDimension (X=2, Y =1)LowerLef t (X=10.00, Y =6.67)StepSize (X=30.00, Y =0.00)Dev iceSize (X=25.00, Y =33.0)Height = 3.00ZOrder = 1 6.67 10.00 Figure R1-1Strip Map Example  Layout Strip X = 1Y = 1 OriginLocation(0,0)="LowerLeftTop" DeviceId Figure R1-2Strip Map Example  DeviceIdMap

&lt;!-- Page 13 --&gt;

SEMI E142-0705 © SEMI 200525 Strip Wafer OriginLocation(0,0)="LowerLeftTop" FX = 20FY = 12TX = 2TY = 3 Figure R1-3Strip Map Example  TransferMap NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standards set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturer's instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature, respecting any materials or equipment mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change withoutnotice.By publication of this standard, Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any items mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 14 --&gt;

SEMI E142.1-0705 © SEMI 20051 SEMI E142.1-0705XML SCHEMA FOR SUBSTRATE MAPPING This standard was technically approved by the global Information & Control Committee. This edition wasapproved for publication by the global Audits and Reviews Subcommittee on April 7, 2005. It was availableat www.semi.org in June 2005 and on CD-ROM in July 2005. 1 Purpose1.1 The purpose of this specification is to provide an XML schema that corresponds to the data model forequipment defined by SEMI E142, Specification for Substrate Mapping. This schema is available to equipmentcommunication standards that want to use SEMI E142 -defined information in XML formatted equipmentcommunication. 2 Scope2.1 The scope of this document is the representation of the SEMI E142 object model in an XML schema. It will notadd new domain information or concepts to the model. The only additions made are those needed to render a usefulXML schema.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to address safety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine theapplicability of regulatory or other limitations prior to use. 3 Referenced Standards and Documents3.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E142  Specification for Substrate MappingSEMI E121  Guide for Style and Usage of XML for Semiconductor Manufacturing Applications3.2 OMG StandardsUnified Modeling Language (UML) Specification, Version 1.4, OMG Specification 01-09-67,(http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/modeling\_spec\_catalog.htm).3.3 W3C StandardsExtensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second Edition)  W3C, 6 October 2000(http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/REC-xml-20001006/).Namespaces in XML  W3C, 14 January 1999 (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-xml-names-19990114/).XML Schema Part 0: Primer  W3C, 2 May 2001 (http://www/w3/org/TR/xmlschema-0/).XML Schema Part 1: Structures  W3C, 2 May 2001 (http://www/w3/org/TR/xmlschema-1/).XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes  W3C, 2 May 2001 (http://www/w3/org/TR/xmlschema-2/).XML Path Language (Xpath)  W3C, 16 November 1999 (http://www/w3/org/TR/xpath/). 4 Terminology4.1 Abbreviations and Acronyms4.2 UML  Unified Modeling Language4.3 W3C  World Wide Web Consortium4.4 XML  eXtensible Markup Language

&lt;!-- Page 15 --&gt;

SEMI E142.1-0705 © SEMI 2005 2 4.5 Definitions4.5.1 UML (Unified Modeling Language)  A notation for representing object-oriented designs and views createdby Booch, Rumbaugh, and Jacobson in order to merge their three popular notations plus aspects of other existingnotations into a single object-oriented notation intended to be usable by all.4.5.2 XML (eXtensible Markup Language)  A markup language used for representing data rich with context andcontent in documents and in communications. XML is an extension of SGML, a document-oriented markuplanguage. It was created by W3C for use on the Internet. XML can represent object-oriented structures. 5 Conventions5.1 This section discusses the conventions used in this specification for translating UML to XML and fordocumenting the XML. These conventions are heavily influenced by the SEMI E121 Guide for Style & Usage ofXML for Semiconductor Manufacturing Applications.5.2 The reader is expected to have a working knowledge of the UML, XML, and Schema specifications (See 3.2and 3.3). This document does not provide tutorial information on these subjects.5.3 Translating UML to XML5.3.1 This document follows the guidelines for XML as outlined in SEMI E121 Guide For Style & Usage of XMLfor Semiconductor Manufacturing Applications.5.3.2 The translation of a UML class to XML is documented using a table format illustrated by Table 1.5.4 Translation Table Column Header Description5.4.1 Attribute or Role Name  If an attribute, the name of the attribute is placed here. If an association (includingaggregation or composition), the role name from the UML diagram is placed here. Compositions are often notassigned role names. In that case none is placed here.5.4.2 UML Name/Type  If an attribute, the data type of the UML attribute is placed here. If an association, thetype of association is placed here. The possible types are Composition, Aggregation, or the basicAssociation. UML defines these three types of associations.5.4.3 XML Element or Attribute  Lists the type of XML construct used to represent the UML attribute orassociation.5.4.4 XML Name/Type  Provides the name and data type of the resulting XML construct. The type may be abuilt-in type (for example, xs:string), or a named type defined within the XML schema.Table 1 Example Translation TableAttribute or Role Name UML Name/Type XML Element or Attribute XML Name/Typefriend association element Friend: HumanReferenceArrayemployees aggregation element Employees: HumanArrayfamily composition element Family: HumanArrayname string element Name: xs:string 6 XML Schema6.1 The actual XML schema defined by this specification is contained in a separate document. The contents of theschema document constitute the core part of this specification.6.2 The target namespace for the schema is urn:semi-org:xsd.E142-1.V0105.SubstrateMap.6.3 Table 2 describes the complex types defined in the schema and how they relate to one another.6.4 Table 3 describes the simple types defined in the schema.6.5 Table 4 shows how the element and attribute names in the schema map to the attributes defined in SEMI E142Substrate Mapping.

&lt;!-- Page 16 --&gt;

SEMI E142.1-0705 © SEMI 20053 Table 2 Complex Elements and Types Defined in SchemaElement/Type DescriptionMapData Top level MapDataType element.MapDataType Top level element that contains zero or one LayoutsType elements, zero or one SubstratesTypeelements and zero or one SubstrateMapsType elements.LayoutsType A collection of one or more LayoutType elements. The uniqueness of the LayoutId is enforcedby the xs:key LayoutKey defined in MapData.LayoutType An element containing the attributes defined for the Layout object in SEMI E142.LogicalCoordinatesType An element containing the attributes defined for the LogicalCoordinates object in SEMI E142.PhysicalCoordinatesType An element containing the attributes defined for the PhysicalCoordinates object in SEMI E142.ZDimensionsType An element containing the attributes defined for the ZDimensions object in SEMI E142.ChildLayoutsType A collection one or more ChildLayoutType elements.ChildLayoutType A element containing a reference (LayoutId) of the child layout. This relationship is enforcedby the xs:KeyRef ChildLayoutRef defined in MapData.SubstratesType A collection of one or more SubstrateType elements. The uniqueness of the combinedSubstrateType and SubstrateId key is enforced by the xs:key SubstrateKey defined in MapData.SubstrateType An element containing the attributes defined for the Substrate object in SEMI E142.AliasIdsType A collection of one or more AliasIdType elements.AliasIdType An element containing the attributes defined for the AliasId object in SEMI E142.SubstrateMapsType A collection of one or more SubstrateMapType elements.SubstrateMapType An element containing the attributes defined for the SubstrateMap object in SEMI E142.Overlay An element containing the attributes defined for the Overlay object in SEMI E142. Theuniqueness of the combined MapName and MapVersion key is enforced by the xs:keyOverlayKey defined in SubstrateMapsType.ReferenceDevicesType A collection of one or more ReferenceDeviceType elements.ReferenceDeviceType An element containing the attributes defined for the ReferenceDevice object in SEMI E142.BinCodeMapType An element containing the attributes defined for the BinCodeMap object in SEMI E142.BinCodeType The content of this element corresponds to the Value attribute defined for the BinCode object inSEMI E142. The remaining attributes are represented as XML attributes.BinDefinitionsType A collection of one or more BinDefinitionType elements.BinDefinitionType An element containing the attributes defined for the BinDefinition object in SEMI E142.DeviceIdMapType An element containing the attributes defined for the DeviceIdMap object in SEMI E142.DeviceIdType An element containing the attributes defined for the DeviceId object in SEMI E142.TransferMapType An element containing the attributes defined for the TransferMap object in SEMI E142.TransferType An element containing the attributes defined for the Transfer object in SEMI E142. Table 3 Simple Types Defined in SchemaType DescriptionMaterialIdType String of 1-32 charactersBinCodeContentType String of 1 or more charactersOrientationType Integer from 0 to 359BinTypeEnum Enumeration:AsciiDecimalHexadecimalInteger2SubstrateSideEnum Enumeration:TopSideBottomSide

&lt;!-- Page 17 --&gt;

SEMI E142.1-0705 © SEMI 2005 4 Type DescriptionOriginLocationEnum Enumeration:LowerLeftUpperLeftLowerRightUpperRIghtCenterAxisDirectionEnum Enumeration:UpRightDownRightUpLeftDownLeftSubstrateTypeEnum Enumeration:WaferFrameStripTray Table 4 Mapping XML Names to Attributes Object.Attribute XML Name(Element or Attribute) Type Layout Layout (Element) LayoutTypeLayout.LayoutId LayoutId (Attribute) xs:stringLayout.DefaultUnits DefaultUnits (Attribute) xs:stringLayout.TopLevel TopLevel (Attribute) xs:booleanLayout.Dimension Dimension (Element) LogicalCoordinatesLayout.LowerLeft LowerLeft (Element) PhysicalCoordinatesLayout.DeviceSize DeviceSize (Element) PhysicalCoordinatesLayout.StepSize StepSize (Element) PhysicalCoordinatesLayout.Z Z (Element) ZDimensionsLayout.TopImage TopImage (Element) xs:stringLayout.BottomImage BottomImage (Element) xs:stringLayout.ProductId ProductId (Element) xs:stringSubstrate Substrate (Element) SubstrateTypeSubstrate.SubstrateType SubstrateType (Attribute) SubstrateTypeEnumSubstrate.SubstrateId SubstrateId (Attribute) MaterialIdSubstrate.LotId LotId (Element) MaterialIdSubstrate.CarrierType CarrierType (Element) xs:stringSubstrate.CarrierId CarrierId (Element) MaterialIdSubstrate.SlotNumber SlotNumber (Element) xs:positiveIntegerSubstrate.SubstrateNumber SubstrateNumber (Element) xs: positiveIntegerSubstrate.GoodDevices GoodDevices (Element) xs: positiveIntegerSubstrate.SupplierName SupplierName (Element) xs:stringSubstrate.Status Status (Element) xs:stringSubstrateMap SubstrateMap (Element) SubstrateMapTypeSubstrateMap.SubstrateType SubstrateType (Attribute) SubstrateTypeEnumSubstrateMap.SubstrateId SubstrateId (Attribute) MaterialIdSubstrateMap.LayoutSpecifier LayoutSpecifier (Attribute) xs:string

&lt;!-- Page 18 --&gt;

SEMI E142.1-0705 © SEMI 20055 Object.Attribute XML Name(Element or Attribute) Type SubstrateMap.SubstrateSide SubstrateSide (Attribute) SubstrateSideEnumSubstrateMap.Orientation Orientation (Attribute) OrientationEnumSubstrateMap.OriginLocation OriginLocation (Attribute) OriginLocationEnumSubstrateMap.AxisDirection AxisDirection (Attribute) AxisDirectionEnumAliasId AliasId (Element) AliasIdTypeAliasId.Type Type (Attribute) xs:stringAliasId.Value Value (Attribute) MaterialIdOverlay Overlay (Element) OverlayTypeOverlay.MapName MapName (Attribute) xs:stringOverlay.MapVersion MapVersion (Attribute) xs:stringReferenceDevice ReferenceDevice (Element) ReferenceDeviceTypeReferenceDevice.Coordinates Coordinates (Element) LogicalCoordinatesReferenceDevice.Position Position (Element) PhysicalCoordinatesBinCodeMap BinCodeMap (Element) BinCodeMapTypeBinCodeMap.BinType BinType (Attribute) BinTypeEnumBinCodeMap.NullBin NullBin (Attribute) xs:stringBinCode BinCode (Element) BinCodeTypeBinCode.X X (Attribute) xs:integerBinCode.Y Y (Attribute) xs:integerBinCode.Number Number (Attribute) xs:integerBinCode.Value BinCode (Element content) BinCodeContentTypeBinDefinition BinDefinition (Element) BinDefinitionTypeBinDefinition.BinCode BinCode (Attribute) xs:stringBinDefinition.BinCount BinCount (Attribute) xs:positiveIntegerBinDefinition.BinQuality BinQuality (Attribute) xs:stringBinDefinition.BinDescription BinDescription (Attribute) xs:stringBinDefinition.Pick Pick (Attribute) xs:booleanDeviceId Id (Element) DeviceIdTypeDeviceId.X X (Attribute) xs:integerDeviceId.Y Y (Attribute) xs:integerDeviceId.Value Id (Element content) xs:stringTransfer T (Element) TransferTypeTransfer.FX FX (Attribute) xs:integerTransfer.FY FY (Attribute) xs:integerTransfer.TX TX (Attribute) xs:integerTransfer.TY TY (Attribute) xs:integerLogicalCoordinates.X X (Attribute) xs:integerLogicalCoordinates.Y Y (Attribute) xs:integerPhysicalCoordinates.X X (Attribute) xs:doublePhysicalCoordinates.Y Y (Attribute) xs:doublePhysicalCoordinates.Units Units (Attribute) xs:stringZDimensions.Order Order (Attribute) xs:integerZDimensions.Height Height (Attribute) xs:doubleZDimensions.Units Units (Attribute) xs:string

&lt;!-- Page 19 --&gt;

SEMI E142.1-0705 © SEMI 2005 6 RELATED INFORMATION 1ADDING SUPPLIER DATANOTICE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI E and was derived from full letter ballotprocedures on April 7, 2005. R1-1 Schema Extension ExampleR1-1.1 The schema may be extended such that user specific data can be added. To do this: First develop a schemathat defines extensions to one or more of the complex types defined in the standard schema, as shown below.

&lt;!-- Page 20 --&gt;

SEMI E142.1-0705 © SEMI 20057 R1-2 BinCodeMap Extension ExampleR1-2.1 Second: Add the namespace of the extension to your instance file:R1-2.1.1 xmlns:xsi=http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance. Now you can specify the attribute xsi:typein the Substrate element and include the extended data alongside the standard data. Both will be validated againsttheir respective schemas. See the example below that validates against the schema extension in R1-1. 148XDFGVersion 001 NOTE 1: Not all XML tools support xsi extensions yet even though it is a published XML standard. NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standards set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturer's instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature, respecting any materials or equipment mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change withoutnotice.By publication of this standard, Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any items mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 21 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 20031 SEMI PR8-0703PROPOSED STANDARD FOR EQUIPMENT DATA ACQUISITIONSOLUTIONS This proposed standard was technically approved by the Global Information and Control Committee and isthe direct responsibility of the Japanese Information and Control Committee. Current edition approved bythe Japanese Regional Standards Committee on January 10, 2003. Initially available at www.semi.orgJanuary 2003; to be published March 2003. NOTICE: The designation of this document wasupdated during the 0703 publication cycle to reflect theaddition of Related Information Sections 5-8 bycommittee vote. 1 Purpose1.1 The purpose of this document is to facilitate thedevelopment of an Equipment Data Acquisition (EDA)interface that can function independently of theSECS/GEM interface. It can be used as a reference forproviding early implementations and prototypes of suchan interface in the absence of a complete set of SEMIspecifications enabling these capabilities.1.2 Intended Audience  This proposed standard isintended for use by original equipment manufacturers,subsystem suppliers, third party automation softwaresuppliers, and device makers who need to implement orinterface to semiconductor equipment data acquisitioncapabilities. 2 Scope2.1 In Scope2.1.1 Essential Concepts2.1.1.1 This proposed standard provides a descriptionof the essential concepts necessary to provide an EDAinterface implementation.2.1.2 Use of Communication Technologies2.1.2.1 This proposed standard specifies technologiesthat shall be used for communicating messages and datain the implementation of an EDA implementation. Thisproposed standard specifies the appropriate usage ofthese technologies.2.1.3 Structure of Messages and Data2.1.3.1 This proposed standard defines a set ofmessages and their associated input and outputarguments, error conditions, and data types using thespecified technology.2.1.4 Optional Features2.1.4.1 This proposed standard describes whichinterface features are considered optional for an EDAimplementation. 2.2 Out of Scope2.2.1 Equipment Process Control Capabilities2.2.1.1 This proposed standard will not addressfeatures needed to initiate or control the execution ofmaterial processing, upload/download of recipes,movement of material, or any other capability that doesnot directly relate to the setup and collection of data.2.2.2 Internal Design of Implementations2.2.2.1 This proposed standard does not describe orrecommend any particular internal design approach forthe implementation of an EDA interface.2.2.3 Factory System Architectures2.2.3.1 This proposed standard does not describe orendorse any factory system architectures based on theimplementations of the interface described herein.Examples will be used where necessary to providecontext or illustrate concepts, but such descriptions arenot an endorsement of, or prescription for, the depictedarchitecture.2.2.4 Design or Function of Applications2.2.4.1 This proposed standard does not describedetails regarding the design or function of anyapplication that uses implementations of the EDAinterface described herein. Examples will be usedwhere necessary to provide context or illustrateconcepts, but such descriptions are not an endorsementof, or prescription for, the depicted application.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to addresssafety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establishappropriate safety and health practices and determinethe applicability of regulatory or other limitations priorto use. 3 Limitations3.1 This proposed standard provides a specification forimplementing a functional EDA interface in theabsence of a complete set of specifications intended toaddress the full set of capabilities. Some or all of thecapabilities supported by this proposed standard may

&lt;!-- Page 22 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 2 overlap, and may not be compatible with, any suchspecifications once completed.3.2 This proposed standard document provides atextual specification of the interface, and is intended forhuman comprehension and understanding of thecapabilities supported by this specification only. Forthe technologies in use, it is best to utilize machine-readable XML Schema and WSDL documents forimplementation to ensure interoperability in the factoryenvironment. The corresponding schema and WSDLdocuments can be obtained through SEMI separatelyfrom this document.3.3 This proposed standard applies to semiconductorproduction equipment. Other types of equipment havenot been examined. 4 Referenced Standards4.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E5  SEMI Equipment CommunicationsStandard 2 Message Content (SECS-II)SEMI E30  Generic Model for Communications andControl of Manufacturing Equipment (GEM)4.2 Other StandardsExtensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0, W3CRecommendation, October 6, 2000(http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml)Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) 1.1, InternetEngineering Task Force (IETF) RFC 2616, June 1999(http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616.html)Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) 1.1, W3C Note,May 08, 2000 (http://www.w3.org/TR/SOAP)Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI): Generic Syntax,IETF RFC 2396, August 1998(http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2396.txt)Uniform Resource Name (URN) Syntax, IETF RFC2141, May 1997 (http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2141.txt)Web Service Definition Language (WSDL) 1.1, W3CNote, March 15, 2001 (http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl)XML Schema , W3C Recommendation, May 02, 2001(http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-0,http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-1,http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2) 5 Terminology5.1 Abbreviations and Acronyms5.1.1 DCP  Data Collection Plan 5.1.2 EDA  Equipment Data Acquisition5.1.3 FDC  Fault Detection and Classification5.1.4 HTTP  Hypertext Transfer Protocol5.1.5 OEE  Overall Equipment Effectiveness5.1.6 SEMI  Semiconductor Equipment andMaterials International5.1.7 SOAP  Simple Object Access Protocol5.1.8 URI  Universal Resource Identifier5.1.9 W3C  World Wide Web Consortium5.1.10 XML  Extensible Markup Language5.2 Definitions5.2.1 data acquisition message  any message sentfrom an off-equipment software client to the equipmentvia an interface supported by the equipment thatsupports the reporting, configuration, activation, or de-activation of automatic or ad-hoc collection of datasuch as alarms/exceptions, events, sampling of time-varying data, etc.5.2.2 EDA Interface  an interface provided bysemiconductor production equipment that enables setupof data collection plans and collection of dataindependent of the equipments SECS/GEM interface.5.2.3 process message  any message sent from anoff-equipment software client to the equipment via aninterface supported by the equipment that causesphysical movement, initiates, pauses, or abortsprocessing, directly affects the course of processing, orthat results in the modification of state informationmaintained by the equipment that directly affectsprocessing. 6 Overview6.1 Interface Scope6.1.1 The interface described by this proposed standardonly supports the acquisition of data from equipment.Process messages will continue to remain in the domainof the SECS/GEM interface to the equipment. Thismeans that any application that requires the use ofprocess messages in order to achieve its objectives willcontinue to be required to send those messages throughthe SECS/GEM interface.

&lt;!-- Page 23 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 20033 6.1.2 Figure 1 shows a conceptual model of the relationship between applications that can utilize this interface fordata acquisition and the host system that uses the SECS/GEM interface to perform process control tasks. If processmessages must be sent to the equipment based on data obtained via the EDA interface, the host system must beintegrated with those components that utilize the EDA interface, so the corresponding process messages can be sentto the equipment via SECS/GEM. Host SystemSECS/GEMDiagnostic, Equipment HealthMonitoring, OEE, and other systemsEDA Equipment data clients set up and controlthe flow of data from the equipment, performanalysis, and send/receive controlmessages to/from host when necessary messages Host uses control/processjob, GEM, etc. to controlequipment actions andexecution Equipment process and data acquisitionmessages data acquisition messages only Figure 1Control and Data Interfaces to the Tool 6.1.3 Figure 2 shows a conceptual picture of the capability supported by this specification. Note that some dataacquisition messages can be sent to the equipment via the SECS/GEM interface, if the equipment has been soconfigured. This capability is in place to facilitate factory architectures in which all data management operationsmust be centralized at the SECS/GEM host during the period when systems based on this specification are indevelopment. Host System EDA Client  Data management services SECS -II / HSMS Equipment SECS Port EDA Port EDA ClientEDA Client(s)  Data management services - Data delivery services SECSEDA Configuredata managementto take place viaeither SECS or EDAportFigure 2EDA Interface Features6.2 Interface Features6.2.1 This section itemizes interface features. Not all features require implementation from suppliers. TheImplementation Required column indicates whether the feature must be implemented in order to be in compliancewith this proposed standard. Optional in the Implementation Required column indicates that the feature is notrequired for compliance with the standard, but shall be considered for advanced implementations, and need not beimplemented except at the suppliers discretion. The column entitled Supported by Interface Definition indicateswhether the feature is supported via the SECS/GEM or XML/SOAP message specifications defined in thisdocument. A - (dash) in the supported by interface definition column indicates that the feature is supportedoutside of the interface, whereas a !(checkmark) indicates that the feature is supported through the interface.

&lt;!-- Page 24 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 4 Table 1 EDA Interface FeaturesCovered inSection #Feature Description Supported ByInterface DefinitionImplementationRequiredGeneral Interface7.1.3 Messages are communicated via Ethernet using HTTP on top ofTCP/IP as the message transport.! ! 7.1.9 Messages are represented as XML data within SOAPenvelopes.! ! 7.7.3.2 Data collection events, state model transitions, equipmentexceptions, and parametric data defined by existing softwarestandards (such as SEMI E30, E40, E87, E90, E94, etc) thatare made available through the SECS/GEM interface aresupported. ! Optional 7.7.3.2 Transmission of milestones or tasks during subsystemprocesses, actuator operations, is supported.! Optional 7.7.2 A time resolution of 0.01 seconds is supported in messagesrequiring a timestamp.! Optional Data Collection Management7.6.2.7 Ability to list the names of, and activate/de-activate datacollection plans via the EDA interface is supported.! ! 7.6.2.6 Ability to list the names of, and activate/de-activate datacollection plans via the SECS/GEM interface is supported.! ! 7.4.1 Equipment configuration is provided to switch listing/activationof data collection plans to either the SECS/GEM or the EDAinterface. - ! 7.4.4 Multiple data collection clients are supported. ! Optional7.7.4 Ability to warn clients of equipment performance degradationis supported.! ! 7.9 The equipment shall provide a method for the user to modify,add and delete data collection plans.- ! 7.9 The equipment shall provide a method for the user to view thecontents of the data collection plans.- ! 7.6.2.2 The equipment shall provide the names of Data CollectionPlans available for selection/activation by applications throughthe interface. ! ! 7.6.2.6.1 Data transmission will continue independent of the SECS/GEMcommunication state of the equipment.- ! Security7.4.2, 7.6.2 Ability to specify the URI of data consumers and data managersat the equipment is supported.- ! Metadata7.8 Equipment metadata is accessible to off-tool clients. - !7.8 Metadata shall include the equipments physical structure downto the level of each individual sensor/actuator that can beincluded in a data collection plan. - ! 7.8 Metadata shall include the names and definitions of anyparameters that can be included in a data collection plan.- ! 7.8 Metadata shall include the possible exceptions or errors that canbe included in data collection plans.- ! 7.8 Metadata shall include what transitions from SEMI standardand equipment supplier defined state models are availablethrough the EDA port. - !

&lt;!-- Page 25 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 20035 Covered inSection #Feature Description Supported ByInterface DefinitionImplementationRequiredData Collection Plans7.9 The data to be transmitted through the EDA port shall bedefined in a set of named data collection plans.- ! 7.9 Data collection plans shall describe which events, exceptions,data variables will be sent through the interface when that planis activated. - ! 6.3 Risks for Preliminary Implementations6.4 There are some inherent risks to implementers ofthe EDA interface specified in this document.Significant risks include:6.4.1 TCP/HTTP Limitations on Data Latency  Anyuse of this standard in an application requiringdeterministic latency in the communication of data toan off-tool application is at risk of failure due to latedelivery of data. Occasional delays in data delivery onthe order of a second or more can occur in TCPcommunication due to the need for packetretransmission. This is inherent in the TCP/IP protocolused by HTTP, and cannot be addressed throughapplication design.6.4.2 Data Collection Plan and Metadata Structureand Formats are not Specified  The content andtransmission format of Data Collection plans andMetadata for the proposed standard are left up to thesupplier. Standards are in process to define Metadataand data collection plan content and data transmissionformat in a standard way. The standard definitions maybe different than those defined by the supplier for theproposed standard.6.4.3 SOAP Protocol Usage  The SOAP usagedefined in this standard is targeted for point-to-point,synchronous communication. This style of SOAPcommunication may not be suitable for morecomplicated communication models, and otherapproaches may be required to achieve the objectives ofsuch applications.6.4.4 XML/SOAP Limitations on Data Throughput While much has been done to optimize commercialimplementations of XML/SOAP messaging support,end-to-end implementations on semiconductorequipment have not been studied to quantify theperformance limitations of these technologies for datacollection, or to identify what hardware/softwareconfiguration options are significant factors inproviding optimal throughput performance with thesetechnologies. If an implementation of this standardrequires meeting specific data throughput goals, it maybe necessary to evaluate the choice of networkingsoftware drivers, application design, messaging software toolkits used, hardware memory/cpu resourcesor other elements when designing an implementation ofthis specification. If the desired throughput goalscannot be met by these design options, it may impactthe design of the message specification, the choice oftransport, or the mechanism for encoding the datadescribed in this specification.NOTE 1: For information on factors contributing to SOAPmessaging performance, see http://www.extreme.indiana.edu/~mgovinda/research/papers/soap-hpdc2002.pdfNOTE 2: For information on factors contributing to HTTPperformance, see http://www.w3.org/Protocols/HTTP/Performance/NOTE 3: For information purposes only, one example ofpossible worst-case data throughput expectations for FDCapplications is available at http://www.sematech.org/public/resources/ediag/background/eec032702.pdf. 7 Proposed EDA Interface Specification7.1 Transport and Messaging7.1.1 XML Schema Namespace  All XML elementinformation items defined in this specification belong tothe reserved SEMI namespace urn:semi-org:schema:eda\_ps\_v0.0.7.1.2 Separate Data Port  The proposed EquipmentData Acquisition interface shall be a separate logicalport from the SECS/GEM control port on the tool.7.1.3 Transport Mechanism  The transportmechanism for the proposed EDA interface shall beHTTP 1.1. The HTTP POST operation shall be used tosend messages to and from the equipment. There shallbe an HTTP connection from the equipment to theclient used for data only and another HTTP connectionfrom the client to the equipment, which will be used fordata management. These two HTTP connectionstogether make up a single EDA interface.7.1.4 HTTP Performance Features  The client of theequipments data port must operate in persistentconnection mode, as defined in HTTP 1.1. It is notrequired that the data management connection of theEDA port operate in persistent connection mode,though that is the default mode for HTTP 1.1.

&lt;!-- Page 26 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 6 7.1.5 SOAP Binding  The SOAP binding specified inthis document shall be HTTP 1.1 in accordance with theSOAP 1.1 W3C Note.7.1.6 SOAP Message Style  Message encoding willbe XML document-style and not Remote ProcedureCall style. In document-style message exchange, XMLdocuments conforming to some application-definedschema are exchanged via SOAP messages.7.1.7 SOAP Action  The SOAP action HTTP headerfield is used to facilitate dispatching individualmessages defined by this specification. The field willcontain a URI that indicates the specific operation inthe message. The URI will be a URN of the form:urn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:.Where OperationName corresponds to the name of theroot tag for each message.7.1.8 SOAP Headers  This document specifies therequired use of a SOAP header element to describe thesource and destination of all messages between theequipment and EDA clients (see Section 7.3.2 and tocorrelate responses with requests (see Section 7.3.3).The specification does not prohibit the use of additionalSOAP header elements, should an implementation ofthis specification find them necessary.7.1.9 SOAP encodingStyle  The SOAPencodingStyle attribute is not used (i.e., not present onany XML element information item) for the messagesdefined in this specification.7.1.10 SOAP Body  The SOAP body will contain anXML fragment as defined in the Data Management andXML Data Formats sections below.7.2 SOAP Message Structure7.2.1 Figure 3 shows the organization of each SOAPmessage exchanged between the equipment and EDAclients. This specification defines the value of theSOAPAction HTTP header to use for each message(see Sections 7.6.2.1 through 7.6.2.5), the SOAPheaders to be used for each message (Section 7.3), andthe elements that are included in the body of the SOAPenvelope for each message (see Sections 7.6.2.7 and7.7). HTTP HeadersSOAPAction SOAP EnvelopeSOAP Headers (optional)SOAP Body, or, or, or,Etc. Figure 3EDA Message Structure 7.3 SOAP Headers7.3.1 This section describes a SOAP header element(MessageHeader) that can be used to facilitate differentmessaging implementations on both the equipment andEDA client side of the interactions defined in thisspecification. The SOAP header defined in this sectionis provided to identify the sender and recipient of eachSOAP message included in this specification, and toassociate a specific message with other messages sentby a given entity.7.3.2 There are two elements specified for the purposeof identifying the sender and intended recipient of aSOAP message: a From element and a To element.Both are required elements in the MessageHeaderelement of each message exchanged in animplementation of this specification. These elementsidentify the sender or intended recipient of a givenSOAP message. These identifiers can be used to routea message to an appropriate entity for processing, todistinguish a specific message from other messagesreceived from other sources, or as a simple mechanismfor enforcing access controls.7.3.3 This section also defines an optional element(CorrelationId) within the MessageHeader elementthat can be used to associate related messages (forexample, a request and its reply) among all messagessent and received by a given entity. The entity in theclient role generates a value for the CorrelationId thatwould be used by the server entity in its reply toestablish the correlation. Use of this element isoptional, and communicating entities are not required toprocess it in order to exchange the messages in thisspecification.

&lt;!-- Page 27 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 20037 Table 2 MessageHeader XML DefinitionTag Name Description XML Datatype Behavior mustUnderstandMessageHeader Container element forFrom/To/CorrelationId.complex Required 1 From Identifies the originator ofthis message.anyURI Required n/a To Identifies the intendedrecipient of this message.anyURI Required n/a CorrelationId Associates this messagewith other messages in thesame message interaction. string Optional (0 or 1) n/a 7.3.3.1 From Element  This element identifies the sender of a given SOAP message, whether the message is anevent, a request, or a response to a request. It is of XML type anyURI and can be any valid URL or URN. Thisspecification does not place any restriction on the format used to identify a sender, regardless of whether the senderis the equipment or an EDA client. All messages originating from the same sender must provide the same value forthe From element so that the recipient may distinguish that sender from others.7.3.3.1.1 Examples  Some examples of valid From elements are provided as follows: urn:equipment-client:icm:utracking-01 http://myfactory.com/furnace/KF011/EDA7.3.3.2 To Element  This element identifies the intended recipient of a given SOAP message. It is of XML typeanyURI and can be any valid URL or URN. This specification does not place any restriction on the form (URL orURN) used to identify a recipient, regardless of whether the recipient is the equipment or an EDA client. Allmessages intended for the same recipient must provide the same value for the To element so that the recipient maydistinguish that message from others intended for other recipients. If the message is a response to a request, thevalue of the To element in the response must be equal to the value of the From element in the original requestmessage.7.3.3.2.1 Examples  Some examples of valid To elements are provided as follows: urn:equipment:robofurnace-inc:3JK9UI-02-99UI http://factory.icm.com/fdc/app-017.3.3.3 CorrelationId Element  If used, the value of this element in the initial request message should be uniquefor that client. Each request shall have a different CorrelationId value. For messages that are replies, the value shallbe equal to the value of the CorrelationId element provided in the original request message.7.3.3.3.1 Examples  some examples of valid CorrelationId elements are provided as follows: 5a389ad2-22dd-11d1-aa77-002035b29092 47767.4 Equipment Configuration7.4.1 Data Management Configuration  There shall be a persistent equipment configuration setting that controlswhether data management (see Section 7.6) is performed via SECS/GEM or via SOAP. The implementation andbehavior of this configuration setting is to be defined by the supplier, but shall not be implemented in such a waythat it is possible to perform data management via both SOAP and SECS/GEM concurrently. When the equipmentis configured to accept data management messages via SOAP, the equipment shall not accept these messages viaSECS/GEM. Likewise, when the equipment is configured to accept data management messages via SECS/GEM,the equipment shall not accept these messages via SOAP. It must be possible for the factory to change thisconfiguration setting without requiring the involvement of the supplier.

&lt;!-- Page 28 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 8 7.4.2 EDA Client Configuration  There shall be apersistent equipment configuration setting for eachEDA client that establishes the URL to whichequipment-initiated SOAP messages will be sent forthat client, and the value of the From element of theMessageHeader SOAP header that that client will usein all client-initiated SOAP messages to the equipment.If an EDA client will be performing data managementvia SECS/GEM, it is not necessary to configure thevalue of the From element of the MessageHeaderSOAP header for that client, but the configuration mustindicate that the client can perform data managementvia SECS/GEM. It must be possible for the factory tochange these configuration settings without requiringthe involvement of the supplier.7.4.3 Equipment Identity Configuration  There shallbe a persistent equipment configuration setting thatestablishes the value of the From element of theMessageHeader SOAP header that will be used for allSOAP messages sent by the equipment. It must bepossible for the factory to change this configurationsetting without requiring the involvement of thesupplier.7.4.4 Multi-Client Considerations  When the datamanagement interface configuration setting is set toSECS/GEM, the equipment shall accept datamanagement messages only from the single configuredSECS/GEM client, and shall send all equipment-initiated SOAP messages only to the single URL that was configured for that client. When the datamanagement configuration setting is set to SOAP, theEDA interface may be multi-client, if the equipmentsupports this optional feature, and shall accept datamanagement messages from any valid configured EDASOAP client.7.5 EDA State Models7.5.1 EDA Communications State Diagram7.5.1.1 Figure 4 shows the state model for theavailability of the EDA interface to the factory. Whendisabled, the equipment is not in a condition whereby itcan process data management messages, nor transmitdata to clients. When enabled, the equipment can bothprocess EDA data management messages, as well astransmit data to clients. EDADisabled EDAEnabled 1 2 H Figure 4EDA Communications State Diagram 7.5.2 EDA Communications Transition Definition TableTable 3 EDA Communications Transition Definition TableNum Previous State Trigger New State Actions1 EDADisabled Equipment powers up, achieves condition toaccept EDA data management requests andtransmit DCP data. EDAEnabled For each configured client, equipmentbegins sending EdaEnabled message, asdescribed in Section 7.7.4.1.2 EDAEnabled Equipment is entering a state wherein it willnot be possible to perform EDA activities.EDADisabled For each configured client, equipmentsends EdaDisabled message, as describedin Section 7.7.4.2. 7.5.3 Data Collection Plan State Diagram7.5.3.1 Figure 5 shows the EDA clients view of equipment behavior for each DCP defined on the equipment. EachDCP for a given client follows this behavior model independently of every other DCP on the equipment. Forexample, if client A activates DCP1, and client B does not, and client A subsequently requests the list of activeDCPs from the equipment, DCP1 will be returned in the list of active plans, because it is in the Active state forclient A. If client B requests a list of active DCPs from the equipment, DCP1 will not be returned in the list ofactive plans, because client B did not activate DCP1, and it is still in the Inactive state for client B.

&lt;!-- Page 29 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 20039 Figure 5Data Collection Plan State Diagram 7.5.4 Data Collection Plan Transition DefinitionTable 4 Data Collection Plan Transition Definition TableNum Previous State Trigger New State Actions1 Inactive A client requests the activation of a DCP using avalid DCP id, via the ActivatePlan operationActive The equipment responds affirmatively tothe request, and begins sending the dataincluded in the plan to the client. Ifactivated with UntilDeactivated set totrue, the equipment shall store a recordin non-volatile memory of the DCP IDand its clients address information.2 Active A client requests the deactivation of a DCPusing a valid DCP id via the DeactivatePlanoperation. Inactive The equipment responds affirmatively tothe request, and discontinues sendingdata defined by that DCP to the client. Ifthe DCP had been activated withUntilDeactivated set to true, theequipment shall remove the previouslystored record regarding the DCP and itsclient from non-volatile memory.3 Active The equipment is entering a state in which it willnot be possible to transmit data to its client. TheDCP was activated with UntilDeactivated setto false (see Section 7.6.2.4.1). Inactive The equipment shall cease sending dataincluded in the DCP to the client. 4 Active A client requests the activation of the DCP, viathe ActivatePlan operation. The DCP is alreadyactive. Active The equipment responds with an error,indicating that the DCP is already active. 5 Active The equipment is entering a state in which it willnot be possible to transmit data to its client. TheDCP was activated with UntilDeactivated setto true (see Section 7.6.2.4.1) Hibernating The equipment shall cease sending dataincluded in the DCP to the client. 6 Hibernating The equipment is entering a state in which it willbe possible to transmit data to its client. TheDCP was activated with UntilDeactivated setto true (see Section 7.6.2.4.1). The client hasresponded to the EdaEnabled message within theconfigured number of attempts (see Section7.7.6.1). Active The equipment shall begin sending thedata included in the DCP to the clientthat originally activated it, as specified inthe record that was stored in non-volatilememory for the DCP when it wasactivated.

&lt;!-- Page 30 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 10 Num Previous State Trigger New State Actions7 Hibernating The equipment is entering a state in which it willbe possible to transmit data to its client. TheDCP was activated with UntilDeactivated setto true (see Section 7.6.2.4.1). The client hasnot responded to the EdaEnabled message withinthe configured number of attempts (see Section7.7.6.1). Inactive The equipment shall cease attempting tosend the data included in the DCP to theclient. 7.6 Data Management7.6.1 Overview  Data management is defined by theset of messages necessary to control the flow of datafrom the equipment for a given client. Requested datais organized by data collection plans (DCPs) that can beindividually activated and de-activated by name.Additionally, EDA clients are able to determine whichplans are defined on the equipment, and which plans arecurrently active. Data management can be performedby either the SECS/GEM client or any configuredSOAP client, as established through configuration (seeSection 7.4).7.6.2 Data Management Messages  The equipmentmust support the following data management messages,whether data management takes place via SECS/GEMor SOAP. The equipment shall only respond to datamanagement requests originating from configuredclients. SOAP clients are identified by the value of theFrom element of the MessageHeader SOAP headerin each message originating from that client. Theequipment shall respond to all data managementmessages received from unrecognized clients with anerror.7.6.2.1 IsEdaEnabled  This operation allows the datamanagement client to ascertain whether the equipmentis ready to receive EDA data managementcommunications and to transmit data through the EDAport.7.6.2.1.1 When this message is sent via SOAP, theSOAPAction HTTP header used shall be urn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:IsEdaEnabled. When thismessage is sent via SECS/GEM, the S14F19 messageshall be used, with the SVCNAME data variable equalto IsEdaEnabled (see Table 5).7.6.2.1.2 The equipment shall always respond to thisrequest, whether it originates from the SECS/GEM portor a valid configured SOAP client, and independent ofthe setting of the data management configurationswitch.7.6.2.2 GetDefinedPlanIds  In this operation the datamanagement client requests the names of the datacollection plans that are available for activation by theclient at the current time. The equipment returns the names of all data collection plans that are currentlydefined, regardless of their activation status.7.6.2.2.1 When this message is sent via SOAP, theSOAPAction HTTP header used shall be urn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:GetDefinedPlanIds. When thismessage is sent via SECS/GEM, the S14F19 messageshall be used, with the SVCNAME data variable equalto GetDefinedPlanIds (see Table 7).7.6.2.2.2 The equipment shall only respond to thisrequest if it originates from a client that is compatiblewith the setting of the data management configurationswitch. For example, if the configuration switch is setto enable data management via SECS/GEM and therequest originates from the SECS/GEM client, theequipment shall respond with the list of defined DCPids. If the request originates from a SOAP client, theequipment shall respond with an error.7.6.2.3 GetActivePlanIds  In this operation the datamanagement client requests the names of the datacollection plans currently active for that client. Theequipment EDA port responds with the list of datacollection plans currently active for the requestingclient.7.6.2.3.1 When this message is sent via SOAP, theSOAPAction HTTP header used shall be urn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:GetActivePlanIds. When thismessage is sent via SECS/GEM, the S14F19 messageshall be used, with the SVCNAME data variable equalto GetActivePlanIds (see Table 9).7.6.2.3.2 The equipment shall only respond to thisrequest if it originates from a client that is compatiblewith the setting of the data management configurationswitch. For example, if the configuration switch is setto enable data management via SECS/GEM and therequest originates from the SECS/GEM client, theequipment shall respond with the list of active DCP ids.If the request originates from a SOAP client, theequipment shall respond with an error.7.6.2.4 ActivatePlan  In this operation the datamanagement client requests that a specific datacollection plan is activated. The equipment respondssuccessfully if it can fulfill the activation request. Agiven DCP need not be restricted to activation by a

&lt;!-- Page 31 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 200311 single client. There is no guarantee of the time betweenactivation request and the transmission of data from thenewly activated DCP to the client.7.6.2.4.1 Data collection plans can be activated in twomodes, determined by the value of theUntilDeactivated parameter (see Tables 11 and 15).If the plan is activated with UntilDeactivated set totrue, then the plan will remain active until aDeactivatePlan request is sent for that plan. In thismode, the equipment shall place the plan in theHibernating state when the equipment shuts down, tobe re-activated during equipment startup. If the plan isactivated with UntilDeactivated set to false, thenthe equipment shall place the plan in the Inactivestate when the equipment shuts down, requiring anActivatePlan request from a client to be made inorder to activate the plan again.7.6.2.4.2 When this message is sent via SOAP, theSOAPAction HTTP header used shall be urn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:ActivatePlan. When this messageis sent via SECS/GEM, the S14F19 message shall beused, with the SVCNAME data variable equal toActivatePlan (see Table 11).7.6.2.4.3 The equipment shall only act on this requestif it originates from a client that is compatible with thesetting of the data management configuration switch.For example, if the configuration switch is set to enabledata management via SECS/GEM and the requestoriginates from the SECS/GEM client, the equipmentshall respond by activating the requested DCP. If therequest originates from a SOAP client, the equipmentshall respond with an error.7.6.2.5 DeactivatePlan  In this operation the datamanagement client requests the deactivation of one orall of the currently activated data collection plans forthat client. If the data management client intends to de-activate all data collection plans then Deactivate PlanID field should contain ALL. The equipmentresponds with the list of data collection plans that havebeen deactivated. If the equipment is unable to de-activate the requested DCP it should respond with anerror message.7.6.2.5.1 When this message is sent via SOAP, theSOAPAction HTTP header used shall be urn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:DeactivatePlan. When thismessage is sent via SECS/GEM, the S14F19 messageshall be used, with the SVCNAME data variable equalto DeactivatePlan (see Table 13).7.6.2.5.2 The equipment shall only act on this requestif it originates from a client that is compatible with thesetting of the data management configuration switch.For example, if the configuration switch is set to enabledata management via SECS/GEM and the request originates from the SECS/GEM client, the equipmentshall respond by deactivating the requested DCP. If therequest originates from a SOAP client, the equipmentshall respond with an error.7.6.2.6 SECS/GEM Data Management Messages(S14,F19/20)7.6.2.6.1 Each data management request sent viaSECS/GEM is implemented using the Generic ServiceRequest stream and function defined in SEMI E5.Tables 514 define the arguments for the requests andacknowledgements for each of these messages.Although data management via SECS/GEM may not beperformed if the SECS/GEM port enters the offlinestate or otherwise becomes unavailable, the equipmentshall continue to send DCP data activated while theSECS/GEM was available.Table 5 Generic Service Request for IsEdaEnabledField Name ValueOPID 0OBJSPEC DataCollectionManagerSVCNAME IsEdaEnabled Table 6 Generic Service Acknowledge forIsEdaEnabledField Name ValueSVCACK 0, 2LINKID 0ERRCODE n Supplier chooses the number and value ofERRCODE n and ERRTEXTn entries forerror responses.ERRTEXT n Supplier chooses the number and value ofERRCODE n and ERRTEXTn entries forerror responses. 7.6.2.6.2 This message does not provide any returnparameters (list item 3 of the S14F20 message has zerolength).Table 7 Generic Service Request forGetActivePlanIdsField Name ValueOPID 0OBJSPEC DataCollectionManagerSVCNAME GetActivePlanIds

&lt;!-- Page 32 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 12 Table 8 Generic Service Acknowledge forGetActivePlanIdsField Name ValueSVCACK 0, 2, 5Use 5 only when data managementconfiguration switch is not set to SECS/GEMLINKID 0SPNAME 1 ActivePlanIdsSPVAL 1 L,n n=number of active DCPs1. 2\. ...n. Each plan id is a separate entry (format 20)in this list.ERRCODE n Supplier chooses the number and value ofERRCODE n and ERRTEXTn entries forerror responsesERRTEXT n Supplier chooses the number and value ofERRCODE n and ERRTEXTn entries forerror responses Table 9 Generic Service Request forGetDefinedPlanIdsField Name ValueOPID 0OBJSPEC DataCollectionManagerSVCNAME GetDefinedPlanIds Table 10 Generic Service Acknowledge forGetDefinedPlanIdsField Name ValueSVCACK 0, 2, 5Use 5 only when data managementconfiguration switch is not set to SECS/GEMLINKID 0SPNAME 1 DefinedPlanIdsSPVAL 1 L,n n=number of defined DCPs1. 2\. ...n. Each plan id is a separate entry (format 20)in this list. Field Name ValueERRCODE n Supplier chooses the number and value ofERRCODE n and ERRTEXTn entries forerror responsesERRTEXT n Supplier chooses the number and value ofERRCODE n and ERRTEXTn entries forerror responses Table 11 Generic Service Request for ActivatePlanField Name ValueOPID 0OBJSPEC DataCollectionManagerSVCNAME ActivatePlanSPNAME 1 PlanIDSPVAL 1 , Format 20, equal to the id of theplan to be activatedSPNAME 2 UntilDeactivatedSPVAL 2 , set to true if DCP should remainactive across shutdowns Table 12 Generic Service Acknowledge forActivatePlanField Name ValueSVCACK 0, 2, 3, 5Use 5 only when data managementconfiguration switch is not set to SECS/GEMLINKID 0SPNAME 1 IsActivatedSPVAL 1 , set to true if the requested plan isactivatedERRCODE n Supplier chooses the number and value ofERRCODE n and ERRTEXTn entries forerror responsesERRTEXT n Supplier chooses the number and value ofERRCODE n and ERRTEXTn entries forerror responses Table 13 Generic Service Request forDeactivatePlanField Name ValueOPID 0OBJSPEC DataCollectionManagerSVCNAME DeactivatePlanSPNAME 1 PlanIDSPVAL 1 , Format 20, equal to the id of theplan to be activated

&lt;!-- Page 33 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 200313 Table 14 Generic Service Acknowledge forDeactivatePlanField Name ValueSVCACK 0, 2, 3, 5Use 5 only when data managementconfiguration switch is not set to SECS/GEMLINKID 0SPNAME 1 DeactivatedPlanIdsSPVAL 1 L,n n=number of deactivated DCPs1. 2\. ...n. Each plan id is a separate entry (format 20) inthis list.ERRCODE n Supplier chooses the number and value ofERRCODE n and ERRTEXTn entries for errorresponsesERRTEXT n Supplier chooses the number and value ofERRCODE n and ERRTEXTn entries for errorresponses 7.6.2.7 EDA Data Management via SOAP  The EDAclient may also perform EDA data management viaSOAP. Data management requests issued from anEDA client to the equipment via SOAP will apply tothe data port associated with that client.7.6.2.7.1 EDA Data Management Message Structure The data management messages from an EDA clientwill be structured in the same way as the dataacquisition messages defined below in Section 7.7.2.The XML fragments inside the SOAP body element arestructured as described in Tables 15 and 16. 7.6.2.7.2 XML Definition of Data Management RequestsTable 15 XML Data Management Request DefinitionTag Name Description XML Datatype BehaviorIsEda-EnabledGetDefined-PlanIdsGetActive-PlanIdsActivatePlan Deactivate-Plansee columns 4-8in this row fortag names, shownin quotes Operation NameElement ComplexRequired-IsEda-Enabled Required-GetDefinedPlanIds Required-GetActive-PlanIds Required-Activate-Plan Required-Deactivate-PlanEquipmentID EquipmentID element Complex Required Required Required Required RequiredPlanID Data collection plan tobe activated ordeactivated (ALL isreserved forDeactivatePlan) String N/A N/A N/A Required Required UntilDeactivated Indicates mode ofactivation Boolean N/A N/A N/A Required N/A

&lt;!-- Page 34 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 14 7.6.2.7.3 XML Definition of Data Management Responses  Responses to data management requests areembedded in the HTTP response to the data management request. The response will contain only the operation typeelement as defined below.Table 16 XML Data Management Response DefinitionTag Name Description XML Datatype BehaviorIsEda-EnabledGetDefined-PlanIdsGetActive-PlanIdsActivatePlan Deactivate-PlanSee columns 4-8in this row fortag names,shown in quotes Operation NameElement ComplexRequired-IsEda-EnabledResponse Required-GetDefinedPlanIdsResponse Required-GetActive-PlanIdsResponse Required-Activate-PlanResponse Required-Deactivate-PlanResponseDefinedPlanIds Space delimited arrayof defined datacollection plan namesList N/A Required N/A N/A N/A ActivePlanIds Space delimited arrayof Active datacollection plan namesList N/A N/A Required N/A N/A IsEnabled Whether or not theEDA port is enabled Boolean Required N/A N/A N/A N/AIsActivated Whether or not theequipment activatedthe requested planBoolean N/A N/A N/A Required N/A Deactivated-PlanIdsData collection planids de-activated bythis operationList N/A N/A N/A N/A Required Error Include if datamanagement requestcould not be executedComplex Optional Optional Optional Optional Optional ErrorTime Time of the error DateTime Optional Optional Optional Optional OptionalErrorType Category of error String Optional Optional Optional Optional OptionalErrorCode Unique identifier oferror String Optional Optional Optional Optional OptionalErrorDesc Text description oferror String Optional Optional Optional Optional Optional 7.7 XML Message Formats7.7.1 This section describes the XML fragments thatmake up the body of the SOAP messages that will besent by equipment to EDA clients through the EDAport. The section describes the general construction ofthe SOAP body and the structure of the elements thatmake up the SOAP body. Each EDA client mustimplement all of the messages defined in this section.7.7.2 General Construction  Each SOAP body willhave the following structure: The root element is theOperation Name element, and is named after the operation being performed. The first element inside theroot element will be the Equipment ID element. TheEquipment ID element is followed by one or moreOperation Name elements. Each Operation Nameelement in a data acquisition message may contain 0 ormore Param elements.7.7.3 Equipment ID7.7.3.1 Each message has one and only oneEquipmentID element. The EquipmentID elementidentifies the equipment for which all data in themessage apply.

&lt;!-- Page 35 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 200315 Table 17 Equipment ID XML definitionTag Name Description XML Datatype BehaviorEquipmentID Complex element that contains all the equipmentidentifier fieldsComplex Required Supplier Supplier Name String RequiredModel Equipment Model String RequiredImmutableID Serial number or Immutable ID of the specific tool String Required 7.7.3.2 General Structure Example Some Supplier8400998948..... 7.7.4 Param Element7.7.4.1 There may be zero or more Param elementsinside any Operation Name element. Param elementscan describe measured values or descriptive attributes.Any tag names not explicitly defined in this proposedstandard must be communicated through paramelements. All param elements that may becommunicated through the EDA interface must bedefined in the Metadata files.7.7.4.2 All param elements must contain the Name andValue elements, at a minimum. Other, optionalelements are listed in the table below. The equipmentsupplier may define additional optional elements. Theelements to be included in the communication ofspecific Names must be defined in the Metadata files.The units and the data type of specific Names must bedefined in the Metadata files.Table 18 Param Element DefinitionTag Name Description XML Datatype BehaviorParam Complex element containing all fieldspertaining to a single parameter.Complex Required Name The name of the parameter. String RequiredValue The value of the parameter. See below formore definition.Complex Required IntVal An integer value Integer Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedIntArrayVal An array of integers List; itemType=integer Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedFloatVal A float value Float Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedFloatArrayVal An array of Float values List; itermType=Float Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedDoubleVal A double value Double Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedDoubleArrayVal An array of double values List; itemType=double Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedStringVal A string String Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedStringArrayVal An array of strings List: itemType=string Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedDateTimeVal A dateTime DateTime Optional;maxOccurrances=unbounded

&lt;!-- Page 36 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 16 Tag Name Description XML Datatype BehaviorDateTimeArrayVal An array of dateTimes List: itermType=dateTime Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedBase64BinaryVal A base64 values Base64Binary Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedAnyURIVal A URI AnyURI Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedBoolVal A Boolean value Boolean Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedBoolArrayVal An array of Boolean values List: itemType=boolean Optional;maxOccurrances=unboundedStructVal Container for groups of simple types. Maycontain an unlimited number of the simpletypes defined for value. Complex Optional;maxOccurrances=unbounded MeasTime Time of the measurement, if applicable. dateTime OptionalLocator Unique identifier for the tool entity, ornamable, to which the param applies.String Required Extension Element containing any additional fieldsprovided by the supplier.Any Optional 7.7.4.3 Value Elements  The elements within the Value element may contain a single scalar value, a spacedelimited array, or a StructVal element. StructVal elements may not be nested.Example 1: simple parametric data point named pressure Pressure43.561999-05-31T13:20:00.087-05:00 Example 2: Collection event ID CEID1278. 7.7.5 DateTime XML Datatype  Whenever an element is given the dateTime XML DataType in this specificationit shall conform to the dateTime built-in data type defined in XML Schema Part 2-Datatypes. The dateTimerepresentation shall include the difference from UTC and the fractional seconds precision shall be at least .01seconds (i.e., ss.ss). Equipment shall pad the fractional seconds field with zeros beyond its measurable precision.7.7.6 Eda Client Operations  This specification defines three different notifications that EDA clients mustsupport: EdaEnabled, EdaDisabled, and EdaData. The EdaData notification includes both Event and Exceptiondata. Extensions to the Event data for the EdaData message are described in related information. The SOAPAction

&lt;!-- Page 37 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 200317 HTTP headers used for these messages are urn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:EdaEnabled, urn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:EdaDisabled, and urn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:EdaData, respectively.7.7.6.1 EdaEnabled  Whenever the equipment EDA port enters the EDAEnabled state, it shall send theEdaEnabled message to each configured client. The equipment will not send any additional messages to aconfigured client until it receives a successful response to the EdaEnabled message from that client. If the responseis not received the equipment will retry the EdaEnabled message a specific number of times and at a specificinterval. Both the number of retries and the retry interval shall be configurable at the equipment. If at the end ofthis retry cycle the expected response to the EdaEnabled message has not been received from that client then theequipment shall deactivate all of that clients hibernating data collection plans and each of those DCPs shall enterthe Inactive state (see transition 7 in Figure 5). The equipment will activate those DCPs again only when asubsequent ActivatePlan request is received from a configured client.7.7.6.2 EdaDisabled  Whenever the equipment EDA port is entering the EDADisabled state, the equipment shallsend the EdaDisabled message to each configured client.Table 19 EdaEnabled/Disabled MessageBehaviorTag Name Description XML DatatypeEdaEnabled EdaDisabledSee columns 3 and 4in this row for tagnames, shown inquotes. Operation NameelementComplex Required-EdaEnabled Required- EdaDisabled EquipmentID EquipmentIDelementComplex Required Required 7.7.7 Event Data  The Event data format is a simple, general-purpose event format intended for communicatingfundamental events from the SECS/GEM interface, and other similar data. The event may be used as a container forparametric data that does not have a particular context within either an operational segment or an exception event.Event data can be provided anywhere within the EdaData message structure following the EquipmentID element. Itcan appear zero or more times, and can be interspersed with Exception data.Table 20 Event DescriptionTag Name Description XML Datatype BehaviorEvent Operation Name Complex RequiredEventTime Event time and date stamp. dateTime RequiredLocator Unique identifier for the tool entity, ornamable, to which the event applies.String Required EventID Event identifier String RequiredContext Complex element containing all contextParam elements.Complex Optional- 0 or 1 Param Complex element that contains all fieldspertaining to a single context param.Complex 1 Required (if Context elementincluded), Many OptionalData Complex element containing all dataparam elements.Complex Required-Exactly 1 Param Complex element that contains all fieldspertaining to a single data param.Complex 1 Required, Many Optional Extension Element containing any additionalinformation provided by the supplier.Any Optional

&lt;!-- Page 38 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 18 Example: Equipment EventSome Supplier8400998948&lt; ImmutableID &gt;1999-05-31T13:20:00-05:00cluster.tool.module274PrJobID898887ShotNum898Temperature184Pressure9984 7.7.8 Locator  This attribute provides a unique identifier for a particular equipment component based on itsposition in the tool hierarchy. Legal values for the locator attribute are derived by starting with the name of rootequipment component in the hierarchy followed by the . character, followed by the names of any componentsbetween the root and target component (each name separated by the . character), followed by the name of thetarget component. A shorthand notation for this pattern is: root.node.node.node.target.

&lt;!-- Page 39 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 200319 7.7.9 Exception Event7.7.9.1 Exception event is an event concerned with errors, faults, or other unexpected events detected by theequipment. Exception data can be provided anywhere within the EdaData message structure following theEquipmentID element. It can appear zero or more times, and can be interspersed with Event data.Table 21 Exception Event Format Definition, valid between Msg tagsTag Name Description XML Datatype BehaviorExEvent Operation Name element Complex RequiredExTime Exception time and date stamp dateTime RequiredLocator Unique identifier for the tool entity , or namable, to which theevent applies.String Required ErrorCode Unique code indicating the error type. May be the SECSGEMALID.String Required ExType Name of the event type. Alarm is reserved for E30 alarms. String RequiredExState set and clear are used for exceptionType Alarm.Otherwise, use of this field is supplier-defined. If this field is notapplicable for the exceptionType, the contents shall be none. String Required ExDesc A text description of the exception. String RequiredSeverity The supplier-defined severity. String Supplier OptionalData Complex element that contains all Param elements. Complex OptionalExtension Reserved for supplier extensions. Any Supplier Optional Example: Exception Event with Attached Parametric DetailSome Supplier8400998948&lt; ImmutableID &gt;1999-05-31T13:20:00-05:00stepper.stage.optics 19898AlarmsetFailed to see clearly2AlignLandingEnergy0.343 7.7.9.2 Representation of SEMI E30 Alarms  It is expected that the supplier will need to transmit exception eventmessages corresponding to SEMI E30 alarms, and possibly other exceptions, through the EDA interface. Wheneveran exception event message corresponding to an E30 alarm is transmitted, the ErrorCode element shall contain thevalue of the ALID data item, and the ExDesc element shall contain the value of the ALTX data item. If the E30alarm message is triggered by the Alarm Detected event then the contents of the ExState element shall contain set,

&lt;!-- Page 40 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 20 for Alarm Set. If the E30 alarm message is triggered by alarm clear then the ExState element shall contain clear,for alarm clear. If it is necessary to include the value of ALCD in the exception, this information shall be providedas a separate parameter within the Data element, the name of the parameter shall be ALCD, and its value shall beof type Base64Binary. The only other required fields for transmission of an E30 alarm are MsgType, EventTimeand Locator.7.7.10 Notification of Interference with Tool Operations  If the function of the EDA port, or the volume of data,is interfering with tool operations or the output of the SECS/GEM port then the tool will notify all configured clientsof the condition. The format of this notification is defined in the following section.7.7.10.1 Tool Interference Message  The following message format will be used to indicate interference with tooloperations. The table below describes the Operation element of the message. The message takes the generalform of XML data messages as described in Section 7.7.2. The SOAPAction HTTP header for this message isurn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:EdaError. The ErrorType field for tool interference messages shall have the valuePerformanceWarning. Note that this message can be used to communicate other error conditions not defined inthis specification.Table 22 EdaError XML DefintionTag Name Description XML Datatype BehaviorEdaError Operation Name Complex RequiredErrorTime Error time and date stamp dateTime RequiredErrorType The category or type of error String RequiredErrorCode A unique identifier for the error String RequiredErrorDesc A more specific description of theproblemString Required 7.8 Metadata7.8.1 Metadata  Metadata must be provided to theuser in the form of XML documents. The structure andformat of metadata is left to the equipment supplier.The provided metadata must include sufficientinformation to describe the following items:1) Definition of all Param Names and other non-standard tags that will be communicated. Thesedefinitions will include, where applicable, units,data types, max sampling frequencies, validlimits, the tool entity to which each paramapplies, and any other aspects necessary tounderstand and use the data element,2) Definition of the equipment structure andhierarchy,3) Definition of the available events and the toolentities to which they apply,4) Definition of any state models that are supported,5) Definition of which parameters can becommunicated with each event, and6) Definition of what exceptions can becommunicated, to what equipment entities theyapply, and what parameters will be included witheach exception. 7.9 Data Collection Plans  Data collection from theequipment will be enabled through the activation ofspecific data collection plans. The definition ofavailable data collection plans must be provided to theuser in the form of an XML file. The structure andformat of the data collection XML file(s) is left to thesupplier.7.9.1 Modifying and Adding Data Collection Plans The equipment supplier must provide a means forcustomers to change the content and number ofavailable data collection plans.7.10 Schema and WSDL documents7.10.1 Three machine-readable files are provided tohelp ensure interoperable messaging between factoryapplications and supplier implementations of thespecification. This section describes each file and itsusage.7.10.2 eda.xsd7.10.2.1 This file is an XML Schema document thatdescribes the structure of the XML document fragmentsspecified in Tables 1522. This file can be used tovalidate, or to facilitate the serialization and de-serialization of, the body element of the SOAPenvelope for each of the messages defined in thisspecification. It cannot be used to enforce or specifythe usage of the HTTP and SOAP protocols.

&lt;!-- Page 41 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 200321 7.10.3 eda\_equipment.wsdl7.10.3.1 This file is an interface description documentthat describes the types, messages, and SOAP andHTTP protocol usage for each of the operations that theequipment must support (Tables 15 and 16). Note thatit does not include specification of the endpoint addressfor these operations, since this is unique for eachequipment installation that provides the service. Thisfile can be used by SOAP messaging toolkits thatsupport WSDL to generate interoperable client andserver code stubs. The contents of eda.xsd have beendirectly included in the body of this file, so it is notnecessary to use that file separately in order toimplement these messages.7.10.4 eda\_consumer.wsdl7.10.4.1 This file is an interface description documentthat describes the types, messages, and SOAP andHTTP protocol usage for each of the operations thatany EDA client must support (Tables 17-22). Note thatit does not include specification of the endpoint addressfor these operations, since this is unique for each EDAapplication. This file can be used by SOAP messagingtoolkits that support WSDL to generate interoperableclient and server code stubs. The contents of eda.xsdhave been directly included in the body of this file, so itis not necessary to use that file separately in order toimplement these messages. NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties orrepresentations as to the suitability of the standards setforth herein for any particular application. Thedetermination of the suitability of the standard is solelythe responsibility of the user. Users are cautioned torefer to manufacturer's instructions, product labels,product data sheets, and other relevant literature,respecting any materials or equipment mentionedherein. These standards are subject to change withoutnotice.By publication of this standard, SemiconductorEquipment and Materials International (SEMI) takes noposition respecting the validity of any patent rights orcopyrights asserted in connection with any itemsmentioned in this standard. Users of this standard areexpressly advised that determination of any such patentrights or copyrights, and the risk of infringement ofsuch rights are entirely their own responsibility.

&lt;!-- Page 42 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 22 RELATED INFORMATION 1OPERATIONAL SEGMENT EXTENSION TO EDA NOTICE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI PR8. This related information is not intended tomodify or supersede the official proposed standard. Determination of the suitability of the material is solely theresponsibility of the user. R1-1 Operational SegmentsR1-1.1 Operational Segment Event  Operational segments are optional, at the discretion of the supplier, and canbe provided as an extension to the equipment events described in the specification. Operational Segment events areprovided for those suppliers that desire to model their tools in a more structured and hierarchical way than ispossible with simple events. The operational segment is a generalization of the task model defined in SEMI E116(Equipment Performance Tracking).R1-1.1.1 Operational Segments  An operational segment, or segment, is a persistent entity that is expected tooccur as part of normal or planned equipment operations. A segment always has only one start time and only onecomplete time, so if a segment is viewed on a timeline or Gantt chart it literally occupies a segment of time. Mostsegments of interest are general equipment operations that are expected to repeat on a regular basis. For example,for an equipment robot that performs the act of loading a wafer into a chamber many times, the robot is the locator,the load task is a segment, and each occasion that the equipment performs that task is an instance of that loadsegment.R1-1.1.2 Segment Instances  Segments of the same name repeat frequently over time. It is necessary to identify aparticular occurrence of a segment and to relate it to other segments involved in the same or dependant operations.InstanceIDs perform this function. The network of operational segments can be reconstructed by connecting eachsegment event to the segment that it describes and then relating each segment to its parent segment, if any. Forexample, a wafer get might have a start and complete event, which are related via an InstanceID to describe theget sub-task. The get sub-task might be part of a load wafer task. The get sub-task would be related to itsparent segment via the ParentInstanceID.Table R1-1 Operational Segment EventTag Name Description XML Datatype BehaviorOpSegEvent Operation Name Complex RequiredSegmentType Identifier for the type of segment being executed(e.g. Process Job, Substrate, Task, etc.).String Required EventType Enum--0 = Complete;1 = Start;2 = Suspend;3 = Resume;4 = InProgress;5 = Transitional;69 = Equipment Defined NonNegative Integer;Max inclusive = 9Required TaskName Name of Task String Optional, include if task orsub-taskPurpose The intended use of the segment (e.g.Production, Engineering, maintenance, etc.).String Optional, include if task orsub-taskSegInstID Unique identifier of the specific segmentinstance to which the message applies. May beUUID. String Optional ParSegInstID Unique identifier of the parent of the segmentinstance that the message applies. May beUUID. String Optional, include if segmentstart event

&lt;!-- Page 43 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 200323 Example: OpSeg EventSome Supplier84009989481999-05-31T13:20:00-05:00 Inspector.robot.aligner OpSegEventTask1AlignManufacturing1999-05-31T13:00:00-05:001999-05-31T12:00:00-05:00 R1-1.1.2.1 Note that the EventID child element of the Event element from the specification is used to identify theextension as an operation segment extension. The additional information used for operational segments is containedwithin the extension element, and resides in a different namespace than that used to define the EDA data types.R1-1.1.3 Enumerations  Three enumerations are included in the Operational segment format for ease of parsingand extraction from a database. These enumerations are: 1) SegmentType, 2) EventType, and 3) Purpose.R1-1.1.4 EventType Enumeration  The EventType enumeration is a list of the types of events that may occur aspart of the execution of a segment. This list describes the different event types that naturally occur as part of theexecution of a segment. Six (6) common event types are defined and the equipment may add custom types asrequired. Enumeration Value Name Description0 Complete The segment completes, either normally or abnormally1 Start The segment begins2 Suspend The segments stops, with the potential to resume3 Resume The segment resumes execution after a suspend4 In-Progress A milestone is reached, or a parametric report is issued5 Transitional One segment ends and another begins simultaneously69 Equipment Defined These enumerations can be defined by the supplier R1-1.2 Schema DocumentR1-1.2.1 A machine-readable XML Schema file is provided to help ensure interoperable usage of the operationalsegment message described in this section of the Related Information for this specification.R1-1.2.2 OpSeg.xsdR1-1.2.2.1 This file is an XML Schema document that describes the structure of the XML document fragmentspecified in Table R1-1 of this section of the Related Information. This file can be used in conjunction with theschema and WSDL files provided with the primary specification to validate, or to facilitate, the serialization anddeserialization of, operational segment data enclosed in the Extension element of the Event message.

&lt;!-- Page 44 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 24 RELATED INFORMATION 2EXAMPLE EDA CLIENT APPLICATIONS NOTICE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI PR8. This related information is not intended tomodify or supersede the official proposed standard. Determination of the suitability of the material is solely theresponsibility of the user. R2-1 Typical Users of Proposed EDASolutionsR2-1.1 This section provides a very basic overview ofthe different classes of data collection clients thatproposed EDA implementations are intended to supportfrom the viewpoints of the types of data that are used,and the basic dynamics of each client. The differentclasses of data collection capabilities may be requiredin a combination or separately depending on thenecessity.R2-1.1.1 Equipment Utilization TrackingR2-1.1.1.1 Scope of Utilization Tracking ApplicationsR2-1.1.1.1.1 Utilization tracking applications areresponsible for collecting information regarding the useof the equipment in the factory. These applicationstypically look for events and alarms/exceptions fromthe to determine when the equipment is beingexercised, when it is idle, and when it is unable toperform its intended function due to errors or alarms.R2-1.1.1.2 Timeliness and Accuracy of UtilizationDataR2-1.1.1.2.1 Such applications are not time-critical,and can accept data off-equipment with very highlatencies (on the order of seconds to minutes or greater)with no adverse effect on the ability of the applicationto function. However, as these applications are meantto calculate where the equipment is spending its time,they require adequately accurate time stamping of allevents and alarms/exceptions. They also depend on theequipment to properly communicate when tasks beginand end, when alarms are set and when they are cleared,etc. It is important for the equipment not to drop theseevents, to double-count them, or to provide incorrecttimestamps for them.R2-1.1.2 Equipment Health MonitoringR2-1.1.2.1 Scope of Equipment Health MonitoringApplicationsR2-1.1.2.1.1 Equipment health monitoring applicationsare responsible for collecting information regarding thedetails of equipment operation, and to analyzeequipment operational data to detect or predict negativetrends in the performance of the equipment. Theseapplications will typically look for equipment operational events describing the behavior of individualsubsystems, exceptions and alarms, trace data on selectparameters, and actuator status. The EDA interfaceshall support a detailed level of equipment operationsthat has not been conventionally supported so as toachieve detailed equipment health monitoring ordiagnosis.R2-1.1.2.2 Timeliness and Accuracy of EquipmentHealth DataR2-1.1.2.2.1 These applications are not time-critical,and can accept data off-equipment with relatively highlatencies (on the order of seconds to minutes) with noreal adverse effect on the ability of the application tofunction. They may be more reactive than utilizationtracking systems, looking for negative conditions onwhich they may take some action (such as paging anengineer, or warning of the need for a possiblemaintenance run).R2-1.1.3 Run-to-Run ControlR2-1.1.3.1 Scope of Run-to-Run ApplicationsR2-1.1.3.1.1 Run-to-Run applications are reactivesystems that collect process variable data from theequipment (typically a metrology tool) at the end of arun, and perform analysis on the results to determine ifany adjustments in control parameters shall be made tofuture processing at the step that was measured. Thenew settings are calculated and made accessible forsubsequent use at the corresponding process step.R2-1.1.3.2 Timeliness of Run-to-Run DataR2-1.1.3.2.1 These applications are not very timecritical in todays systems, where control parameteradjustments are performed on a lot basis. As itbecomes possible to collect measurement data on awafer basis, they will become more time-sensitive, andmay function properly with latencies on the order ofseconds.R2-1.1.3.3 Run-to-Run Data InterestsR2-1.1.3.3.1 These applications are typically interestedin measurement result sets, events, exceptions, oralarms.

&lt;!-- Page 45 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 200325 R2-1.1.4 Fault Detection and Classification (FDC)R2-1.1.4.1 Scope of FDC SystemsR2-1.1.4.1.1 FDC systems are data-intensive, time-critical applications. They typically collect processvariable, event, and exception/alarm data from theequipment as its produced, and analyze the results,looking for faults that indicate or could lead to mis-processing. If such a condition is detected, an FDCsystem may send a control signal to the equipmentthrough the host, to abort processing before furthermaterial is lost.R2-1.1.4.2 Timeliness of FDC DataR2-1.1.4.2.1 FDC applications can be very timecritical, sometimes in the sub-second range. As thetime criticality of FDC applications becomes moreacute, the ability of this interface to support theseapplications will be severely tested.

&lt;!-- Page 46 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 26 RELATED INFORMATION 3EQUIPMENT DATA LIFECYCLE NOTICE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI PR8. This related information is not intended tomodify or supersede the official proposed standard. Determination of the suitability of the material is solely theresponsibility of the user. R3-1 The Data Life CycleR3-1.1 The data originating from the equipment may be processed or converted into many forms depending on howthe data is to be utilized. The data obtained through the EDA interface will be processed by data consumers andmay be converted into a command that initiates certain control sequences, or perhaps converted into an STS or EPTreport. Other data obtained through the EDA interface will be linked together with JOB information (e.g. CJ, PJ,carrier ID, slot ID, etc.) and used as process data. For APC purposes, process data and equipment healthmonitoring data may be linked together to yield suitable APC/FDC engine input. The examples below show thedata life cycle steps from data generation to its consumption. The data through the same EDA interface can havedifferent data performance attributes such as data resolution depending on data, and may have different data lifecycle scenarios.R3-1.1.1 Data Life Cycle SchematicR3-1.1.1.1 The data life cycle schematic shows not only data acquisition but also utilization in many ways. The lifecycles shown in the diagram are all possible life cycle scenarios. Although this standard does not define all of thelife cycle scenarios (only scenarios #1 and #3), it is important this standard does not preclude other possiblescenarios such as data query and application calls. The A interface of an equipment may have all of these data lifecycle models depending on data utilization or applications. 1 2 3 4 reportStorageGene-rationAssort-ment1 reportGene-rationAssort-ment2 StorageAssort-ment1 Gene-ration StorageAssort-ment1 Assort-ment2-2 Storage Assort-ment2-1 Assort-ment2 reportAssort-ment2 reportStorageGene-rationAssort-ment2Assort-ment1 Higher Level InterfaceEDA Interface report 1 2 3 4 reportStorageGene-rationAssort-ment1 reportGene-rationAssort-ment2 StorageAssort-ment1 Gene-ration StorageAssort-ment1 Assort-ment2-2 Storage Assort-ment2-1 Assort-ment2 reportAssort-ment2 reportStorageGene-rationAssort-ment2Assort-ment1 Higher Level InterfaceEDA Interface report Figure R3-1The Data Life Cycles

&lt;!-- Page 47 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 200327 Table R3-1 Possible Data Life Cycle ScenariosSteps DescriptionGeneration Generation of data which can be reported out of the equipment.Assortment 1 Least value adding processing for data handling; give tag such as name or index or time stamp.Assortment2, 2-1, 2-2Make collected data be easily utilized by applications; linkage with other data or any valueadding data processing (calculation of average, max. or min.).Storage Store EE data for a certain period of time.May provide query function from the higher level applications.This includes storage of value added data created by assortment 2.Report Output by a certain application to viewers or in the form of files. R3-1.1.1.2 The form of the data may vary depending on how much capability the equipment has to process the data,or on the resolution that the application requires.R3-1.1.1.3 Above data life cycle schematic show that:1) The data resolution requirement varies with data itself, the application, or the system. Detailed equipment data such as detailed equipment event data (DEE) Data associated with JOB information Processed and value added data2) Data acquisition method may vary. Trace data requirement Query (this is not the scope of this standard) Subscription by applicationR3-1.1.2 Example of Data Life Cycle for Low Level Data such as Detailed Equipment Data (DEE)R3-1.1.2.1 This example describes how the Calculation of equipment utilization Data for EPT and STS may begenerated from low level equipment data. Step DescriptionAssortment1Input data is I/O event data of sensors and actuators.Give name and time stamp.Assortment2-1From the consequence abstract the sequence start and stop events. Link with equipment structure model orJOB information.Assortment2-2Calculate necessary indices. Storage Store calculated data. Provide subscription capability to show past data.Report Report or show. Scenario Function/application in equipment Higher level applicationsScenario 1 Give elementary data its name and time stamp. Detect necessary sequence starts and stops so as tocalculate necessary indices. Report formationfunction.Scenario 4 Calculation for EPT/STS embedded in equipment andput out data.Application acquires the result of equipmentutilization calculation, and this application only hasviewer output function.

&lt;!-- Page 48 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 28 R3-1.1.3 Equipment Health Monitoring from Analog Data and Low Level Equipment DataR3-1.1.3.1 This example describes a health check of vacuum level for each wafer. Step DescriptionAssortment 1 Input is analog data from vacuum gauge and time stamp will be given.Assortment2-1Input is detailed equipment event data, and pump down sequence is detected for starts and ends, and these eventsare linked with JOB information and with carrier ID, slot ID and so on.Assortment2-2The vacuum level is compared with reference data per wafer so as to examine if there is vacuum leveldeterioration.Storage Vacuum level data, its consequence or context, and the result of judgment are stored for a certain period of time.This provides subscription function from the higher level application.Report Application acquires the result, and this application has viewer output function. Scenario Function/application in equipment Higher level applicationsScenario 1 Low level data such as detailed equipment event data isgiven timestamp.Pump down sequence is detected for starts and ends,compare with reference data per wafer so as to detectany problem.Problem will be reported.Scenario 3 Pump down sequence is detected for starts and ends,compare with reference data per wafer so as to detectany problem. Acquire result of malfunction detection from equipment.Show the result. R3-1.1.4 Data Available from EDA PortR3-1.1.4.1 The data available from the EDA port contains some reporting information such as EPT. These reportsare high-level equipment management information utilized by the fab-wide productivity monitoring application.Logical model based data includes the status, for example, of the load port, or job status (CJ and PJ). These datahave the data life cycle of scenario #3.R3-1.1.4.2 The other type of the data available from the EDA port is equipment data such as I/O status, sensor data,and all the equipment constants. These data have the data life cycle of scenarios #1 and #3.R3-1.1.4.3 Both areas of data should be available for efficient equipment management and OEE improvement. Data covered and value added byEPT, STS, ARAMS Standards and gLogical Model Based Datah gElementary Datah and health monitoring I/O events, Sensor data, equipmentconstants and suchData covered and value added byEPT, STS, ARAMS Standards andCJ/PJ Host view data forEquipment Management Logical Model Based Data Elementary Data Equipment view data for diagnostics Life Cycle Scenario 3 Life Cycle Scenario 1, 3 I/O events, Sensor data, equipmentconstants and such Setting DataValues to controlEquipment so toperform intendedprocess Data covered and value added byEPT, STS, ARAMS Standards and gLogical Model Based Datah gElementary Datah and health monitoring I/O events, Sensor data, equipmentconstants and suchData covered and value added byEPT, STS, ARAMS Standards andCJ/PJ Host view data forEquipment Management Logical Model Based Data Elementary Data Equipment view data for diagnostics Life Cycle Scenario 3 Life Cycle Scenario 1, 3 I/O events, Sensor data, equipmentconstants and such Setting DataValues to controlEquipment so toperform intendedprocess Figure R3-2Data Available from EDA Port R3-1.1.4.4 In the case where the equipment sends out equipment data right after assortment 1, the applicationabove EDA interface needs to have such functions as to link the equipment data with JOB information, to comparethe data with some threshold values, or to calculate for statistic data abstraction. JOB information, the setting valueswhich may be described in the recipes or used in the equipment internally, the equipment control structure, or thedata naming conventions are to be made available through EDA port or some other means.R3-1.1.4.5 The data that are supposed to be made available through the EDA port are listed below.

&lt;!-- Page 49 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 200329 1) Control Job related1. ControlJob ID2. CarrierInputSpec: Carrier ID list3. ProcessingCtrlSpec: PRjob list4. ProcessOrderMgmt: PRjob execution sequence5. MtrlOutSpec: Wafer origin and target specification2) PR Job related1. PRJobID2. PRMtlType: Unit of material3. PRMtlNameList: material name list4. RecID5. RecVariableList: Variable parameter name list and values6. PRProcessStart: start methodNOTE 1: If process condition is changed, the content is to be reported for the name of parameters and values.3) Recipe related1. Recipe ID2. Recipe body (detailed content)3. Setting value data the equipment use internally for each of the process control devices (temperaturecontrollers, mass flow controllers and such)

&lt;!-- Page 50 --&gt;

SEMI PR8-0703 © SEMI 2003 30 RELATED INFORMATION 4MESSAGE EXAMPLES NOTICE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI PR8. This related information is not intended tomodify or supersede the official proposed standard. Determination of the suitability of the material is solely theresponsibility of the user. R4-1 Example EDA MessagesR4-1.1 This section provides simple examples of each of the EDA messages defined in the specification. HTTPheaders are shown in full only for the IsEdaEnabled request. Thereafter, only the SOAPAction header is shown forbrevity.R4-1.2 Data Management Messages (supported by the equipment)R4-1.2.1 IsEdaEnabled Request POST /EDAEquipmentService HTTP/1.1User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 6.0; MS Web Services Client Protocol1.0.3705.0)Content-Type: text/xml; charset=utf-8SOAPAction: "urn:semi-org:ws:eda\_ps\_v0.0:IsEdaEnabled"Content-Length: 433Expect: 100-continueConnection: Keep-AliveHost: localhost urn:robofurnace:zippo:furnace-00899urn:icm:equipment.client:app-1RoboFurnace, Inc.Zippo 35539d-JDII-Uj399