---
title: "E5-1104 - © SEMI 1982, 2004..."
description: "SEMI标准文档"
sidebar_label: "E5-1104 - © SEMI 1982, 2004..."
sidebar_position: 25
tags: ['SEMI', 'Standard']
custom_props:
  source_type: 'pdf'
  source_file: 'semi-chapter-025.pdf'
  chapter: 25
  page_count: 50
---

import PdfDownloadCard from '@site/src/components/PdfDownloadCard';
import PdfSplitView from '@site/src/components/PdfSplitView';

<PdfDownloadCard
  pdfLink="/pdfs/semi/025.pdf"
  pdfSize="N/A"
  title="E5-1104 - © SEMI 1982, 2004..."
  description="SEMI标准文档"
/>

---

## 📖 并排查看：Markdown文本 + PDF原文档

<PdfSplitView pdfPath="/pdfs/semi/025.pdf">

---
title: "E5-1104 - © SEMI 1982, 2004..."
description: "SEMI标准文档"
sidebar_label: "E5-1104 - © SEMI 1982, 2004..."
sidebar_position: 25
tags: ['SEMI', 'Standard']
custom_props:
  source_type: 'pdf'
  source_file: 'semi-chapter-025.pdf'
  chapter: 25
  page_count: 50
---



&lt;!-- Page 1 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004143 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F31 Verification Request Send (VRS) M,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message requests the interpreting equipment to check the contents of the provided process program and inform the hostwhether or not the process program is acceptable for processing at the machine. The values of MDLN and SOFTREV areobtained from the PCD used to generate the process program. If S7,F31 is multi-block, it must be preceded by the S7,F1/S7,F2Inquire/Grant transaction.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. L,c (c = Number of Process Commands)1. L,21. 2\. L,p (p = Number of Parameters)1. ..p. 2\. L,2..c. L,2ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F32 Verification Request Acknowledge (VRA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionAcknowledges reception of a formatted process program verification request at its destination and whether the process programwas accepted by the equipment. A returned status of accepted by the interpreter means only that the message is understood. Thevalidity of the contents of the process program is specified through a separate transaction (S7,F27/S7,F28).StructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F33 Process Program Available Request (PAR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message requests the interpreting host or equipment to check its process program library and tell the requester if the PPIDwill be supplied if requested.StructureExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 2 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 144 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F34 Process Program Availability Data (PAD) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message allows originator to tell requester whether it can provide the specified process program and whether it can provideit formatted, unformatted, or both.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F35 Process Program for MID Request (PPMR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request the transfer of the process program to be used for the material identified.StructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F36 Process Program for MID Data (PPMD) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message is used to transfer the process program for the material identified.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. ExceptionA zero-length list returned means no such MID or other error. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F37 Large Process Program Send (LPPS) S,H &lt;-&gt; E,replyDescriptionThis is a request to send a process program via the Data Set Transfer protocol. The Data Set name, DSNAME, is the text stringidentifier of the process program, PPID. The Data Set is subsequently transferred as a Stream with the following internal SECSIIstructured data: StructureExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 3 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004145 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F38 Large Process Program Acknowledge(LPPA) S,H &lt;-&gt; EDescriptionAcknowledge or error. A returned status of accepted means only that the message is understood. When the receiving entity isthe equipment, there is aseparate verification transaction (For S7,F27/S7,F28) that indicates the completion status of the request.When the receiving entity is the host, the completion of the request is signaled by an event report.StructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F39 Large Formatted Process Program Send (LFPPS) S,H &lt;-&gt; E, replyDescriptionThis is a request to send a formatted process program via the Data Set Transfer Protocol. The Data Set name, DSNAME, is thetext string identifier of the process program, PPID. The Data Set is subsequently transferred as a Stream with the followinginternal SECSII structured data: L,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. L,c (c = Number of Process Commands)1. L,21. 2\. L,p (p = Number of Parameters)1. ..p. 2\. L,2..c. L,2StructureExceptionnone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F40 Large Formatted Process Program Acknowledge (LFPPA) S,H &lt;-&gt; EDescriptionAcknowledge or error. A returned status of accepted means only that the message is understood. When the receiving entity isthe equipment, there is a separate verification transaction (S7,F27/S7,F28) that indicates the completion status of the request.When the receiving entity is the host, the completion of the request is signaled by an event report.StructureExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 4 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 146 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F41 Large Process Program Request(LPPR) S,H &lt;-&gt; E, replyDescriptionThis message is used to request the transfer of a process program via the Stream 13 Data set Transfer protocol. The Data Setname, DSNAME, is the text string identifier of the process program, PPID. The Data Set is subsequently transferred as a Streamwith the following internal SECSII structured data: StructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F42 Large Process Program Acknowledge (LPPA) S,H &lt;-&gt; EDescriptionAcknowledge or error. A returned status of accepted means only that the message is understood. When the receiving entity isthe equipment, there is a separate verification transaction (For example: S7,F27/S7,F28) that indicates the completion status ofthe request. When the receiving entity is the host, the completion of the request is signaled by an event report.StructureExceptionIt is possible to use the ACKC7 code command will be performed with completion signaled later for this message. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F43 Large Formatted Process Program Request (LFPPR) S,H &lt;-&gt; E, replyDescriptionThis message is used to request the transfer of a formatted process program via the Data set Transfer protocol. The Data Setname, DSNAME, is the text string identifier of the process program, PPID. The Data Set is subsequently transferred as a Streamwith the following internal SECSII structured data: L,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. L,c (c = Number of Process Commands)1. L,21. 2\. L,p (p = Number of Parameters)2. ..p. 2\. L,2..c. L,2StructureExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 5 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004147 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS7,F44 Large Formatted Process Program Acknowledge (LFPPA) S,H &lt;-&gt; EDescriptionAcknowledge or error. A returned status of accepted means only that the message is understood. When the receiving entity isthe equipment, there is a separate verification transaction (S7,F27/S7,F28) that indicates the completion status of the request.When the receiving entity is the host, the completion of the request is signaled by an event report.StructureExceptionIt is possible to use the ACKC7 code command will be performed with completion signaled later for this message. 10.12 Stream 8 Control Program Transfer  The purpose of this stream is to provide the method for transmittingthe programs used in the equipment to perform the control function or to execute the transmitted process program. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS8,F0 Abort Transaction (S8F0) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSame form as S1,F0.Structure Exception Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS8,F1 Boot Program Request (BPR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request the transmission of the boot program. It is assumed that there is only one boot programassociated with any given equipment.StructureHeader onlyExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS8,F2 Boot Program Data (BPD) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThe boot program is required by some systems as a precursor to loading an operating system or executive program.StructureExceptionA zero-length item means no boot.

&lt;!-- Page 6 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 148 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS8,F3 Executive Program Request (EPR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request the executive program. It is assumed that there is only one executive program associated withany given equipment.StructureHeader onlyExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS8,F4 Executive Program Data (EPD) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThe executive program is the master control program of the equipment. The executive may contain all the program required or itmay contain the information required to request the rest of the program it needs on Stream 13.StructureExceptionNone 10.13 Stream 9 System Errors  This stream provides a method of informing the host that a message block hasbeen received which cannot be handled or that a timeout on a transaction (receive) timer has occurred. Themessages indicate either a Message Fault or a Communications Fault has occurred but do not indicate aCommunications Failure has occurred.10.13.1 Communications Failure  A Communications Failure occurs in a SECS-I environment when, and onlywhen, the RTY limit is exceeded.NOTE 10: In the event of a Communications Failure, no Stream 9 message is sent.10.13.2 Communications Fault  A Communications Fault occurs when the equipment does not receive anexpected message (when a transaction timer or a conversation timer has expired).10.13.3 Message Fault  A Message Fault occurs when the equipment receives a message which it cannot processbecause of a fault that arises from the content, context, or length of the message. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS9,F0 Abort Transaction (S9F0) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSame form as S1,F0.Structure Exception

&lt;!-- Page 7 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004149 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS9,F1 Unrecognized Device ID (UDN) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThe device ID in the message block header did not correspond to any known device ID in the node detecting the error.StructureExceptionNone S9,F2 Not Used Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS9,F3 Unrecognized Stream Type (USN) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThe equipment does not recognize the stream type in the message block header.StructureExceptionNone S9,F4 Not Used Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS9,F5 Unrecognized Function Type (UFN) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message indicates that the function in the message ID is not recognized by the receiver.StructureExceptionNone S9,F6 Not Used Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS9,F7 Illegal Data (IDN) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message indicates that the stream and function were recognized, but the associated data format could not be interpreted.StructureExceptionNone S9,F8 Not Used

&lt;!-- Page 8 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 150 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS9,F9 Transaction Timer Timeout (TTN) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message indicates that a transaction (receive) timer has timed out and that the corresponding transaction has been aborted.It is up to the host to respond to this error in an appropriate manner to keep the system operational.StructureExceptionNone S9,F10 Not Used Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS9,F11 Data Too Long (DLN) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message to the host indicates that the equipment has been sent more data than it can handle.StructureExceptionNone S9,F12 Not Used Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS9,F13 Conversation Timeout (CTN) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionData were expected but none were received within a reasonable length of time. Resources have been cleared.StructureL,21. 2\. ExceptionNone S9,F14 Not Used 10.14 Stream 10 Terminal Services  The functions of this stream is to pass textual messages between operatorterminals attached to processing and/or testing equipment and the host. The equipment makes no attempt tointerpret the text of the message, but merely passes it from terminal keyboard to the host or from the host to thedisplay of the terminal. Management of human response times to information displayed on terminals is theresponsibility of the host.

&lt;!-- Page 9 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004151 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS10,F0 Abort Transaction (S10F0) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSame form as S1,F0.Structure Exception Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS10,F1 Terminal Request (TRN) S,H&lt;-E,\[reply\]DescriptionA terminal text message to the host.StructureL,21. 2\. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS10,F2 Terminal Request Acknowledge (TRA) S,H-&gt;EDescriptionAcknowledge or errorStructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS10,F3 Terminal Display, Single (VTN) S,H-&gt;E, \[reply\]DescriptionData to be displayed.StructureL,21. 2\. ExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 10 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 152 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS10,F4 Terminal Display, Single Acknowledge (VTA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionAcknowledge or errorStructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS10,F5 Terminal Display, Multi-Block (VTN) M,H-&gt;E,\[reply\]DescriptionData to be displayed on the equipments terminal.StructureL,21. 2\. L,n1. ..n.ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS10,F6 Terminal Display, Multi-block Acknowledge (VMA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionAcknowledge or errorStructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS10,F7 Multi-block Not Allowed (MNN) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionAn error message from a terminal that cannot handle a multi-block message from S10,F5.StructureExceptionNone S10,F8 Not Used

&lt;!-- Page 11 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004153 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS10,F9 Broadcast (BCN) S,H-&gt;E,\[reply\]DescriptionThis function is generally the same as S10,F3 except that specific TID in each equipment need not be specified. Instead, the textis directed to each terminal in the equipment when the function is received. This function assumes that this feature exists on allequipment, otherwise repeated S10,F3 messages should be used.StructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS10,F10 Broadcast Acknowledge (BCA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionAcknowledge or errorStructureExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 12 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 154 10.15 Stream 11 has been deleted and will not appearagain in this publication.10.15.1 It is the consensus of the CommunicationsCommittee that Stream 11 is obsolete. Its use isdiscouraged, and it has been removed from the 1989edition of the standard. The reasons for removal arethree-fold:1. The purpose of this stream, as it was originallyenvisioned, is perceived to be of little use and canbest be accomplished by other means beyond thescope of this standard;2. The functions in this stream have many technicalproblems that severely limit their use;3. There is a noticeable lack of implementations ofthis standard that utilize Stream 11 in its originallyintended form.NOTE 11: Applications that need to transfer unformatteddata between the host and equipment should use the facilitiesof Stream 13.10.16 Stream 12 Wafer Mapping  Messages whichdeal with coordinate positions and data associated withthose positions. This includes functions such as wafermapping with coordinates of die on a wafer and theassociated binning information.10.16.1 Structure  Functions 1 through 20 addressthe variations required by semiconductor equipmentmanufacturers in transmitting wafer maps to and fromthe process equipment (wafer probe through die attach).The functions include three basic formats. The threeformats developed are:1. Row/column format where a coordinate rowstarting position is given with die count in the rowand starting direction. The respective binninginformation follows for each die.2. Array format is structured such that a matrix arraycaptures all or part of a wafer with the associatedbinning information.3. Coordinate format provides an X/Y location andbin code for die on the wafer.10.16.2 Definitions and Descriptions  The followinginformation is required to perform map association tothe physical wafer as it relates to the archival use andtransmission of wafer maps.1. Flat/Notch Location2. Frame Rotation3. Row Count4. Column Count5. Die Units of Measure 6. Die Size7. Process Die Count8. Reference Points9. Bin Code Equivalents10. Process Axis11. Null Bin Code Value12. ID Type10.16.2.1 Flat/Notch Location  The position indegrees that the flat or notch are oriented duringprocessing relative to a normal position of zerodegrees. See Figure 6.10.16.2.2 Frame Rotation  The orientation of a filmframe relative to a normal position of zero degrees.See Figure 7.10.16.2.3 Row/Column Count  The row and columncounts are the total number of rows and columns,respectively, on a wafer which must be correlateddirectly with the wafer map. These numbers willalways be greater than zero.10.16.2.4 Die Sizes  The die size is given in standardunits as specified by the die unit of measure itemDUTMS, and will also be greater than zero. The valueof the die size is determined by measuring the distancefrom a point on one die to the same point on the nextdie, often referred to as an index. This is depicted inthe lower portion of Figure 7, Section B in the GeneralRules Section.10.16.2.5 Process Die Count  The process die countitem is used by equipment that is being map driven tomake determinations about how much material toprepare. For example, a die attach will epoxy leadframes in advance of the attach process. By knowingthe total number of die to be processed within a wafermap, the equipment can stop epoxying lead framesequivalent to the last die to be attached. This item isalso used by the equipment to tell the host how manytotal die it processed for that map. For example, a dieattach would use PRDCT to report the total die actuallyattached from a particular wafer.10.16.2.6 Reference Points  Reference pointsprovide a means of relating a map to the physical wafer.The total number of these points, and the method forassigning and detecting them, is the responsibility ofthe equipment. This standard only provides a means fortransmitting them.10.16.2.7 Origin  The origin is in one of fivelocations which is specified by the equipment whengenerating a wafer map. The origin is on an arraystructure having dimensional values equal to those

&lt;!-- Page 13 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004155 specified by the row and column count. The origin thenlies on one of the four corners of that array or in acenter location determined by the following formula:row ~ or ~ column + 12  truncated 10.16.2.7.1 It is implicit in determining the centerlocation that the upper-left-hand corner of the area, inthe normal position, be counted as the first row andcolumn position. An equipment requesting a mapprovides the origin location that it wants the map to bebased on before transmission. If the equipment doesnot provide an origin, the host must provide a defaultvalue. An equipment transmitting a map must providethe origin with the map setup data.10.16.2.8 Bin Code Equivalents  Bin codeequivalents is a list of bin codes that the receivingequipment will process. (i.e., if a map contains codes 1through 10 and the good die are bins 1 and 2, then bincode equivalent list could indicate 1 and 2 if only thegood die categories were needed. These are the onlybin codes to which an equivalent will drive for itsrespective process function.) In the case of X/Ycoordinate format, the locations transmitted will be onlythose with the bin codes stated in the Bin CodeEquivalent list, unless the length byte is set to zero, inwhich all of the bin codes in the map will betransmitted.10.16.2.9 Process Axis  The process axis is the axis,either rows or columns, increasing or decreasing, andthe side of the map, (top, bottom, left, or right,respectively) that the map data will originate from.This is based on the coordinate system as describedunder the General Rules section of this document.10.16.2.10 ID Type  ID type indicates theappropriate material ID type (i.e., wafer, cassette, orfilm frame).10.16.3 General Rules10.16.3.1 Map Data Size  Stream 12 provides for thetransmission of a complete map regardless of size.Equipment requiring segmented maps for transmissionor reception will not be able to use the Stream 12functions to handle the complete conversation.10.16.3.2 Orientation Conventions  The orientationof a wafer presented for processing will differ fromequipment to equipment. Stream 12 specifiesconventions for expressing wafer orientation so that amap can be translated from one geometricrepresentation to another. 10.16.3.2.1 The bottom of the wafer is the notch or theline of the major flat. The orientation of a wafer ismeasured in positive degrees clockwise (CW) from thenormal position. The normal position is where thebottom of the wafer is closest to you when the wafer islying horizontally in front of you with the die sidefacing up. The normal position has an orientation ofzero degrees. See Figure 6 for graphic representation ofwafer orientations.10.16.3.2.2 The bottom of a film frame is also thenotch or the line of notches. Its orientation andnormal position are measured in the same manner asfor wafers. See Figure 7 for examples of bottoms offilm frames.10.16.3.2.3 The orientation of an unmounted waferpresented for processing is given by the parameterFNLOC, Flat/Notch LOCation.10.16.3.2.4 The ultimate orientation of a waferpresented for processing after it has been mounted on afilm frame is the cumulative rotation of the wafer fromthe normal position on the film frame and the rotationof film frame as it is presented to the equipment. Thisis determined by the sum of the parameters FNLOC andFFROT, Film Frame ROTation. It is possible for anapplication to represent the ultimate orientation of awafer in one of these parameters only and pass the otherparameter as zero length.10.16.3.2.5 Figure 6 shows wafers oriented at 270degrees with respect to the bottoms of a metal andround film frame. If one of these film frames werepresented to an equipment rotated 90 degrees clockwise(CW), (bottom facing the left edge of the page), theultimate orientation of the wafer would be zero degrees.10.16.3.2.6 In the case where either FNLOC or FFROTare unknown or irrelevant information, a zero-lengthdata item is transmitted, and the item will be ignored bythe application. One of the items must exist.10.16.3.3 Coordinate Axis System  The coordinateaxis orientation is shown in Figure 8, Section A. Theassumption is that the X or column coordinatesincrease to the right of the Y-axis and the Y orrow coordinates increase above the X-axis. Indescribing the physical wafer it is also given that thecoordinate axis orientation never rotates. The wafermoves or rotates within the coordinate axis system.The origin within the array describing the waferscoordinate system must be in one of five locations onthat array (the center, upper-left, lower-left, upper-right,or lower-right corner of the array).

&lt;!-- Page 14 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 156 10.16.3.3.1 Figures 9 and 10 summarize the conversation protocol in the form of a flow chart. Since a singletransmit inquire/grant can be used for one of three message function pairs, the application is required to examineMAPFT, is received as part of the map setup data to determine the appropriate function to follow. If the appropriatefunction is not transmitted, the conversation is aborted and the error is reported using the appropriate error reportingstream and function. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F0 Abort Transaction (S12F0) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSame form as S1F0.Structure Exception Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F1 Map Set-up Data Send (MSDS) S,H&lt;-E,replyDescriptionUsed to send all of the map set-up data common to all formats and required to link the data map with the physical wafer.StructureL,151. 2\. 3\. 4\. 5\. 6\. 7\. L,n1. ..n. 8\. 9\. 10\. 11\. 12\. 13\. 14\. 15\. ExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 15 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004157 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F2 Map Set-up Data Acknowledge (MSDA) S,H-&gt;EDescriptionAcknowledgment of receipt of complete set of map set-up parameters.StructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F3 Map Set-up Data Request (MSDR) S,H&lt;-E,replyDescriptionUsed to request set-up data from the host for the product ready to be processed at the equipment (common to all formats).StructureL,91. 2\. 3\. 4\. 5\. 6\. 7\. 8\. 9\. ExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 16 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 158 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F4 Map Set-up Data (MSD) S,H-&gt;EDescriptionUsed to send all of the map set-up data required to link the data map with the physical wafer.StructureL,151. 2\. 3\. 4\. 5\. 6\. L,n1. ..n. 7\. 8\. 9\. 10\. 11\. 12\. 13\. 14\. 15\. ExceptionA zero-length list returned means no such MID. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F5 Map Transmit Inquire (MAPTI) S,H&lt;-E,replyDescriptionUsed to prepare the host for map transmission. S12,F5 must precede all S12,F7-8,F9-10, & F11-12 transactions.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F6 Map Transmit Grant (MAPTG) S,H-&gt;EDescriptionProvides permission to transfer.StructureExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 17 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004159 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F7 Map Data Send Type 1 (MDS1) M,H&lt;-E,replyDescriptionUsed to send map data from the equipment to the host in row or column compressed format. If S12,F7 is multi-block, it must bepreceded by the S12,F5/S12,F6 Inquire/Grant transaction.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. L,n1. L,21. 2\. 2\. L,2..n. L,21. 2\. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F8 Map Data Acknowledge Type 1 (MDA1) S,H-&gt;EDescriptionAcknowledge or errorStructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F9 Map Data Send Type 2 (MDS2) M,H&lt;-E,replyDescriptionUsed to send map data from the equipment in array format. If S12,F9 is multi-block, it must be preceded by the S12,F5/S12,F6Inquire/Grant transaction.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. ExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 18 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 160 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F10 Map Data Acknowledge Type 2 (MDA2) S,H-&gt;EDescriptionAcknowledge or errorStructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F11 Map Data Send Type 3 (MDS3) M,H&lt;-E,replyDescriptionUsed to send map data from the equipment in cartesian coordinate format. Bin values may or may not be included in themessage. If S12,F11 is multi-block, it must be preceded by the S12,F5/S12,F6 Inquire/Grant transaction.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. L,n1. L,21. 2\. 2\. L,2..n. L,21. 2\. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F12 Map Data Acknowledge Type 3 (MDA3) S,H-&gt;EDescriptionAcknowledge or errorStructureExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 19 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004161 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F13 Map Data Request Type 1 (MDR1) S,H&lt;-E,replyDescriptionUsed to request map data for product at equipment process station in row or column format.StructureL,21. 2\. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F14 Map Data Type 1 (MD1) M,H-&gt;EDescriptionUsed to send map data from the host to the equipment in row or column format.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. L,n1. L,21. 2\. 2\. L,2..n. L,21. 2\. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F15 Map Data Request Type 2 (MDR2) S,H&lt;-E,replyDescriptionUsed to request map data for product at an equipment process station, in array format.StructureL,21. 2\. ExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 20 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 162 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F16 Map Data Type 2 (MD2) M,H-&gt;EDescriptionUsed to send map data from the host to the equipment in array format.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. ExceptionA zero-length list returned means no such MID. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F17 Map Data Request Type 3 (MDR3) S,H&lt;-E,replyDescriptionUsed to request map data for product at an equipment process station in cartesian coordinate format.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F18 Map Data Type 3 (MD3) M,H-&gt;EDescriptionUsed to send map data from the host to the equipment in cartesian coordinate format. Bin values may or may not be included.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. L,n1. L,21. 2\. 2\. L,2..n. L,21. 2\. ExceptionA zero-length list returned means no such MID.

&lt;!-- Page 21 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004163 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS12,F19 Map Error Report Send (MERS) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionUsed to transmit map related errors.StructureL,21. 2\. ExceptionNone S12,F20 Not Used

&lt;!-- Page 22 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 164 Figure 6Wafer Rotation Position in Degrees

&lt;!-- Page 23 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004165 Figure 7Wafer Rotation on Film Frame Figure 8Orientation Reference and Index Determination

&lt;!-- Page 24 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 166 Figure 9Wafer Map Transmitted by Equipment

&lt;!-- Page 25 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004167 Figure 10Wafer Map Received by Equipment 10.17 Stream 13 Data Set Transfers  This streamprovides protocols to transfer data sets between sys-tems. It is not intended to provide a general file accessmechanism.10.17.1 Data Set Characteristics  The data set mayreside on the host or the equipment.10.17.1.1 The term data set is used in a very generalsense. A data set may represent a file, a data structurein memory, a collection of sensor values, or highdensity wafer profile data. The protocols define onlythe way data is sent from one system to another and donot define how the data set is stored by either the hostor equipment.10.17.1.2 The sending system is defined to be thesystem that has the data set. The receiving system isdefined to be the system to which the data set is beingtransferred. The host or the equipment may assumeeither role. 10.17.2 Unformatted Data Set Protocol  The proto-col for transferring unformatted data sets has the fol-lowing characteristics:1. Information about the record structure of the dataset may be available.2. ASCII records are transferred without the recordterminating noise characters used by someoperating systems.3. Data sets do not need to be transferred in a singlemessage.4. No arbitrary limits are imposed on the length ofone message. The maximum amount of data sentin each message is determined by both the sendingand receiving systems, so there can be no dataoverruns.5. There is a method of restarting a transfer in theevent of an interruption.

&lt;!-- Page 26 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 168 10.17.2.1 Data Set Name  An ASCII string (format20) which performs a function similar to the MessageID (Stream and Function) of the SECS-I protocol. Thisis a logical name which has meaning to both the equip-ment and the host. Neither the equipment nor the hostis required to use the Data Set Name for the sameinformation in any other context. For example, mainte-nance data may be stored in the equipment in the fileWIDGET.DAT and in the host as records in a data-base, but the Data Set Name may be S11,F2.10.17.2.2 Records  The Record Type determines theway the data set is divided into messages for transfer tothe receiving system. There are two types of records:Discrete and Stream.1. A data set with Discrete records has a traditionalrecord structure, such as ASCII text.RecordLength is the length of the longest record.Zero-length records are allowed. Each record fromthe data set is sent as a single item in a message.2. If Record Type is Stream, then the data set has nointernal structure which can be communicated withthis protocol.These kind of data set might be, for example, a dump ofmain memory, SECS-II structured data, or data whichhas implicit record boundaries. RecordLength has nomeaning for this kind of data set. Items containing datafrom the data set have no relationship to the structure ofthe data set.10.17.2.3 Transactions  The basic data transfer isperformed by the OPEN, READ, and CLOSE transac-tions. There is no explicit write transaction. A write isperformed indirectly using the SEND transaction. ARESET transaction is provided to allow a gracefulrecovery after a crash. This protocol describes thetransactions over the communications channel only. Noassumption is made about the implementation of thetransactions. For example, the OPEN transaction on adata set which is stored on a disk file does notnecessarily cause the sending system to open the file.10.17.2.3.1 The OPEN, READ, and CLOSE transac-tions are initiated by the receiving system. The SENDtransaction is initiated by the sending system. TheRESET transaction is initiated by either system. Theusual transaction timer operates between the primaryand secondary messages of each transaction. The timebetween transactions, especially between READ trans-actions, is application-specific so no additional timer isdefined.10.17.2.3.2 Internally, the protocol uses a Handle tokeep track of multiple open data sets, and a Checkpointwhich aids in error recovery. A value called ReadLength is used to negotiate the amount of data sentat one time.10.17.2.4 Handle  Between the sending andreceiving systems, more than one data set may be openat a time, or one data set may be opened many times.The Handle is a short name used to keep track of thestate of a particular data set and instance of OPENbetween the sending and receiving systems (see Figure11). This Handle may be thought of as a name for asingle application level connection from the sending tothe receiving system. Its value is assigned in theprimary message of the OPEN transaction.10.17.2.4.1 The value used for the Handle must not beused in another OPEN by the receiving system to thesame sending system until it is used in a CLOSE to thatsending system, or the RESET transaction is sent byeither system. For example, assume a host systemopens a data set on equipment 255 using Handle 1. Thehost may not issue another OPEN to equipment 255using Handle 1 until it closes 1 on 255. However, thehost may use Handle 1 to open a data set on anotherpiece of equipment, and equipment 255 may use Han-dle 1 to open a data set on the host.10.17.2.4.2 The number of data sets which may beopen at one time and the number of times one data setmay be opened is not specified by this standard. Errorcodes are defined for situations where the limits areexceeded. It must be possible to have one outstandingtransaction (i.e., a primary message for which there hasnot been a reply) for each open Handle. If the sendingsystem receives a primary message for a Handle whichalready has an outstanding transaction, then the errorcode for Pending Transaction is returned in the second-ary message (see Figure 11).10.17.2.5 Checkpoint  The response to each READtransaction contains the data and a new Checkpointvalue. The Checkpoint is defined by and has meaningonly for the sending system. Its purpose is to allow adata transfer to be restarted from the point of the lastcomplete message after some communication interrup-tion. The exact nature of the Checkpoint is not speci-fied. It could be the byte index in the data set, a recordcounter (for Discrete records), or some other system-dependent value.NOTE 12: Checkpoint and the SECS-II transaction timerdefine a performance requirement for the sending system.The sending system must be able to get data from anycheckpoint location within a data set between the receipt ofthe OPEN primary message and the time for reply to the firstREAD.10.17.2.5.1 The value of Checkpoint must conform toseveral rules:1. The Checkpoint value is exactly four bytes long.

&lt;!-- Page 27 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004169 2. The beginning of the data set has Checkpoint valuewith all bits reset.3. A Checkpoint with all bits set is illegal.4. A Checkpoint supplied by the sending systemwhich does not have all bits set is usable in anOPEN transaction to restart a data transfer withoutany lost data or duplicated data.10.17.2.5.2 The receiving system defines the initialCheckpoint in the primary message of the OPEN trans-action. The sending system returns the next Checkpointin the response to each READ.10.17.2.6 Read Length  The Read Length must besupplied by the receiving system with each READtransaction. It specifies the maximum number of databytes which that system is prepared to process at onetime. The sending system may supply less if it has lim-ited resources. The sending system may supply more ifReadLength is zero, or is smaller than RecordLength.10.17.2.7 Reading a Data Set  The basic datatransfer is initiated with the OPEN transaction andcompleted with the CLOSE transaction. Information issent from the sending to the receiving systems by aseries of READ transactions.10.17.2.8 OPEN Transaction  The receiving systemsends a primary message containing the DataSet Nameof the desired data set, the Handle to be used, and theCheckpoint of the initial READ transaction. Theresponse from the sending system is a secondary mes-sage with a return code and the RecordType andRecordLength of the data set. If the return code is oneof the error codes, then no data set was opened and thevalues of RecordType and RecordLength are undefined.If the RecordType is Stream, then the value ofRecordLength is undefined. Notice that the undefineditems will still appear in the secondary message.10.17.2.8.1 The return code in the secondary messageis one of the following:OK.ERROR: Unknown Data Set ID.ERROR: Try later (i.e., the data set is in use).ERROR: Too many open data sets.ERROR: Data set open too many times.ERROR: Handle in use.ERROR: Pending Transaction.10.17.2.9 The READ Transaction  The receivingsystem sends a primary message which contains theHandle, and the ReadLength. The sending systemresponds with a secondary message which has a return code, the next Checkpoint, and zero or more items withdata. At least one data item must be supplied unlessthere is an error. The return codes are:OK.ERROR: End of Data.ERROR: No open Data Set (i.e., incorrect Handle).ERROR: Cannot continue (i.e., a disk read error on thesending system).ERROR: Pending Transaction.10.17.2.9.1 Any READ transaction which follows aREAD which returned an error, except PendingTransaction, will generate the same error. The valueof Checkpoint must be illegal (i.e., all bits must be set)when the End of Data, No open Data Set, orPending Transaction error is returned. The value ofCheckpoint error must be a value from which recoverymay be attempted without duplicating data when theCannot continue error is returned. Recovery may beattempted by issuing a CLOSE, followed by an OPENwith the last value of Checkpoint, and then anotherREAD.10.17.2.9.2 Each secondary message for the READtransaction must contain a whole number of Discreterecords. A record may be sent as an ASCII or a binaryitem. Stream data sets are broken into pieces by theREAD transaction without regard to internal structure.Each piece would be sent as a single binary item. Thenumber of items which contain data depends on theRecordType, Record Length, and Read Length. Thealgorithm is designed so that the maximum length ofthe secondary message is deterministic. It gives thereceiving system the ability to control the amount ofresources (such as SECS-I buffers) which it must allo-cate. The sending system may send less data than themaximum if it has limited resources. The performance(i.e., the packing of records into a message of somemaximum size) should be very good for the case whererecords are all nearly the maximum length. This isassumed to be the usual case. The efficiency in patho-logical cases (e.g., many short records) will not begood, but the algorithm is robust enough to accommo-date this without exceeding the maximum message size.NOTE 13: If the RecordType is Stream, then there is exactlyone item with a binary format whose length is not more thanReadLength. If the RecordType is Discrete, then themaximum number of items, MaxItems, is calculated by theformula:   = thRecordLengReadLengthint,1maxMaxItems

&lt;!-- Page 28 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 170 10.17.2.9.3 The size of the secondary message may beless because of limited resources in the sending system.10.17.2.9.4 For data sets with Discrete records, the for-mat of each item is either ASCII (format 20) or binary(format 10). There is no requirement that all records bein the same format, but mixed record formats are notencouraged. Items with ASCII format should have onlydata characters. Characters which the sending systemuses for control information (e.g., newline for a recordterminator) should not appear. If an application finds itnecessary to include these characters, then format 10, orStream should be used.10.17.2.10 CLOSE Transaction  This transaction ter-minates a data transfer and frees the Handle for futureuse. The primary message is sent by the receiving sys-tem and contains only the Handle. The sending systemresponds with a secondary message which has a returncode.10.17.2.10.1 The return code is one of the following:OK.ERROR: No open Data Set (i.e., incorrect Handle).ERROR: Pending Transaction.10.17.2.11 Sending a Data Set  Writing a data set isperformed by requesting that the receiving system readit. The sending system initiates the SEND transactionto request that a data set be read. The receiving systemis expected to perform the OPEN, READ, and CLOSEtransactions to transfer the data set if it accepts therequest. The time between the secondary message ofthe SEND and the primary message of the OPENdepends on the application.10.17.2.12 The SEND Transaction  The primarymessage sent from the sending system to the receivingsystem contains the Data Set Name.10.17.2.12.1 The secondary message contains the DataSet Name and a return code which is one of the follow-ing:OK.ERROR: Unknown Data Set Name.ERROR: Try later (i.e., the system is busy).10.17.2.13 Error Recovery  The receiving systemmay crash while a data set is open but no READ trans-action is pending. The sending system will not be ableto tell that this has happened because there is no time-out value defined between READ transactions. Whenthe receiving system is restarted it may have forgotten which data sets were open. States in the two systemsare now inconsistent.10.17.2.14 RESET Transaction  The RESET transac-tion offers a way to resynchronize the two systems.When one system issues the primary message of theRESET transaction, it is informing the other system thatany data sets which may have been open are to beclosed. This applies to all data sets open between bothsystems. It is not necessary to issue CLOSE transac-tions for each individual data set because the RESETtransaction is a global close.10.17.2.15 Any equipment which uses Stream 13 mustissue the RESET transaction as part of its initializationor bootstrap procedure. A host system must issue aRESET to equipment which uses Stream 13 during theinitialization for that equipment.10.17.2.16 SECS-II Protocol Definition  Figure 11shows the state diagram for the sending system while adata set is being transferred. Each circle shows a possi-ble state of the sending system. The names of thesestates are for reference only. They are not meant tosuggest an implementation. The arrows show transi-tions due to SECS-II messages received or sent by thesending system.10.17.2.16.1 In the initial state (Idle) handle X is notopen. The states marked with an asterisk are those inwhich a transaction is outstanding. If the sending sys-tem receives any primary message from the receivingsystem with handle X during the time it is in thesestates, then the secondary message for that transactionwill contain the Pending Transaction error code, butthe original transaction for handle X will not beaffected. Some states, especially the error states, maytake zero time in some implementations. In these cases,the Pending Transaction error code would not bereturned from those states.10.17.3 Formatted Data Sets  Formatted data setsare data sets transferred in a standard format. Stream13 provides a method for transferring data sets in atable format. A table has both attributes and content.The attributes of the table provide information about thedata set as a whole, such as the date and time that it waslast modified, its size, etc. The content of the tableconsists of column headers and rows. A row is anordered list of table elements. A column refers to alltable elements at a specific position within all rows,where each column is identified by a corresponding textstring as a column header. The table elements in the 1stcolumn position are used as an identifier for the row.

&lt;!-- Page 29 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004171 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F0 Abort Transaction (S13F0) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSame form as S1,F0.Structure Exception Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F1 Send Data Set Send (DSSS) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionSent by the sending system to request that the other system read a dataset.StructureL,11. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F2 Send Data Set Acknowledge (DSSA) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSent by the receiving system in response to Send Data Set Send. 1. 2\. Structure ExceptionThe possible ACKC13 codes for this message are: 0 = O.K.1 = ERROR:Try later.2 = ERROR:Unknown Data Set Name. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F3 Open Data Set Request (DSOR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionSent by the receiving system to open a data set for reading.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. ExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 30 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 172 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F4 Open Data Set Data (DSOD) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSent by the sending system in response to Open Data Set Request.StructureL,51. 2\. 3\. 4\. 5\. ExceptionThe possible ACKC13 codes for this message are: 0 = O.K.1 = ERROR:Try later.2 = ERROR:Unknown Data Set Name.3 = ERROR:Illegal Checkpoint value.4 = ERROR:Too many open Data Sets.5 = ERROR:Data set open too many times.9 = ERROR:Handle in Use.10 = ERROR:Pending Transaction. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F5 Read Data Set Request (DSRR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionSent by the receiving system to read data from an open data set.StructureL,21. 2\. ExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 31 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004173 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F6 Read Data Set Data (DSRD) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSent by the sending system in response to Read Data Set Request.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. L,n1. ..n. ExceptionThe possible item formats, number of items (n), and length of each FILDAT item (|th) are given by the following table.MaxItems is defined in Section 10.17.10.2. RTYPE 0 (Stream) 1 (Discrete)Item Format 10 (binary) 10 (binary)or 20 (ASCII)Maximum n 1 MaxItemsMaximum n 1 (ACKC13 = 0) 1 (ACKC13 = 0)0(any error) 0(any error)Maximum |th READLN RECLENMaximum |th 0 0 The possible ACKC13 codes for this message are:0 = O.K.6 = ERROR: No open Data Set7 = ERROR: Cannot Continue8 = ERROR: End of Data10 = ERROR: Pending Transaction Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F7 Close Data Set Send (DSCS) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionSent by the receiving system to close an open data set.StructureL,11. ExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 32 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 174 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F8 Close Data Set Acknowledge (DSCA) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSent by the sending system in response to Close Data Set Send (DSCS).StructureL,21. 2\. The possible ACKC13 codes for this message are:0 = O.K.6 = ERROR:No open Data Set.10 = ERROR:Pending Transaction.ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F9 Reset Data Set Send (DSRS) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionSent by either system to close all open data sets.StructureHeader onlyExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F10 Reset Data Set Acknowledge (DSRA) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSent in response to Reset Data Set Send.StructureHeader onlyExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F11 Data Set Object Multi-Block Inquire (DSOMGI) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message requests permission to send a multi-block data set. If the receiving system does not grant permission in the reply,the multi-block data set may not be sent. OBJSPEC is used to identify the data set object type and identifier and may include adestination. DATALENGTH represents the total message length, not the length of the data set.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. ExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 33 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004175 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F12 Data Set Object Multi-Block Grant (DSOMBG) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message grants or denies permission to send a multi-block data set.StructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F13 Table Data Send (TDS) M,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message allows the host and the equipment to exchange predefined datasets in a tabular format. The first element of everyrow is used to reference that row for all other elements. If S13,F13 is Multi-block, it must be preceded by the S13,F11/S13,F12Inquire/Grant transaction.StructureL,81. 2\. 3\. 4\. 5\. 6\. L,n # of table attributes1. L,21. 2\. ..n. L,21. 2\. 7\. L,c # of column definitions1. 1st column element description..c. cth column element description8. L,r # of row definitions1. L,c 1 # of entries per definition1. 1st table element, 1st row.m. mth table element, 1st row..r. L,c r rth row definition1. 1st table element, rth row.m. mth table element, rth rowExceptionIf OBJSPEC is a zero-length item, then the owner of the table is the receiver of the message. If r is zero, any existing tabledefinition of the given type and id is to be deleted. Otherwise, c1 may not be zero, and the value of c1 shall be less than or equalto the value of c.

&lt;!-- Page 34 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 176 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F14 Table Data Acknowledge (TDA) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message is used to acknowledge the receipt of a table and to indicate any errors.StructureL,21. 2\. L,p1. L,21. 2\. ..p. L,21. 2\. Exceptionp = 0 if and only if TBLACK indicates no errors. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F15 Table Data Request (TDR) M,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message allows the host or the equipment to request part or all of a specific table. Either specific columns or specific rowsmay be requested, but not both at the same time. If S13,F15 is Multi-block, it must be preceded by the S13,F11/S13,F12Inquire/Grant transaction.StructureL,71. 2\. 3\. 4\. 5\. 6\. L,p # of column definitions1. 1st column element description..p. pth column element description7. L,q1. 1st row identifier..q. ExceptionIf OBJSPEC is a zero-length item, then the owner of the table is the receiver of the message. Either p or q, or both, must be zero.If p = 0 and q = 0, all rows are requested; otherwise, only the specified columns, or the rows referenced by TBLELT, arerequested.

&lt;!-- Page 35 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004177 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS13,F16 Table Data (TD) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message is used to return data from the requested table.StructureL,61. 2\. 3\. L,n # of table attributes1. L,21. 2\. ..n. L,21. 2\. 4\. L,c # of column definitions1. 1st column element description..c. cth column element description5. L,r # of row definitions1. L,c 1 # of entries per definition1. 1st table element, 1st row..m. last table element, 1st row..r. L,c r rth row definition1. 1st table element, rth row..m. mth table element, rth row6. L,21. 2\. L,p1. L,21. 2\. .p. L,21. 2\. Exceptionp = 0 if, and only if, TBLACK indicates no errors. The length c 11 of a table row may not exceed the value of c.

&lt;!-- Page 36 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 178 Figure 11The Sending Systems State Diagram During a Data Set TransferAn Asterisk (\*) marks the states where a primary message which uses handle X would result in a secondarymessage with the error code for Pending Transaction.

&lt;!-- Page 37 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004179 10.18 Stream 14 Object Services  The functions in this stream are used for generic functions concerning objects,including obtaining information about objects and setting values for an object. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F0 Abort Transaction (S14F0) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionSame form as S1,F0.Structure Exception

&lt;!-- Page 38 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 180 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F1 GetAttr Request (GAR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request a set of specified attributes for one or more objects. It consists of an object specifier for theowner of the target objects (the objects of interest), the target object type, a list of identifiers of the target objects, a filter (a list ofqualifying relationships) that limits the target objects of interest to those that meet all of the qualifications in and the specificattributes whose values are requested.The object specifier provides a specification of the owner of the target object(s). It contains a sequence of hierarchical objectrelationships. Each element of the object specifier identifies a specific object instance that is the superior of the following objectinstance in the sequence. The last object instance in the sequence is in a hierarchical relationship to the target objects. The targetobject type designates the type of the target object, and the list of object identifiers indicates the specific instance of that type thatare of interest. The target type may be omitted only if object identifiers are unique across all object types and the list ofidentifiers is not empty.The object filter is an optional list of qualifications, each of which provides a condition to be applied to the object instances ofinterest. Each qualification objects of interest are those that meet all of the specified qualifications.The attribute relationship quantifier is a logical binary relationship ATTRRELNi that the specified qualifying valueATTRDATAi has to the corresponding attribute of each instance of the desired object type(s). The objects that are to bequalified with this filter have an attribute value Vi such that the statement ATTRDATAi ATTRRELNi Vi  is TRUE. IfATTRRELNi is omitted, the relationship of equality is intended.For ASCII attribute values ATTRDATAi , the characters for question mark ? and asterisk \* are used as wild characters toprovide filtering for certain object types. The character ? may be used in any attribute or key attribute value with an ASCIIformat to represent any single character and may be repeated. The asterisk character \* may be similarly used to represent avariable-length string, including a null string. The string \*x represents a string of any length that ends in x, the string x\*represents any string that begins with x, and the string \* represents any string of any non-zero length. The comparison fortext characters is case insensitive.Equipment is not required to support wild characters in particular, or attribute filters in general.StructureL,51. 2\. 3\. L,i i = identifiers of the object instances requested1. ..i. 4\. L,q q = # object qualifiers to match1. L,31. 2\. 3\. ..q. L,31. 2\. 3\. 5\. L,a a = # attributes requested1. ..a. ExceptionIf OBJSPEC is a zero-length item, no object specifier is provided. If i = 0,only the filter is to be applied. If q = 0, no filter isspecified. If both i and q = 0, information for all instances of the objects are requested. If a = 0, all attributes are requested.

&lt;!-- Page 39 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004181 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F2 GetAttr Data (GAD) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message is used to transfer the set of requested attributes for the specified object(s). The order of attributes is retained fromthe primary message.StructureL,21. L,n n = number of objects1. L,21. 2\. L,a a = number of attributes1. L,21. 2\. ..a. L,21. 2\. ..n. L,21. 2\. L,b b = number of attributes1. L,21. 2\. ..b. L,21. 2\. 2\. L,21. 2\. L,p p = number of errors reported1. L,21. 2\. ..p. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf OBJSPEC is a zero-length item, no object specifier is provided. If n = 0, no objects matched the specified filter. If p = 0, noerrors were detected.

&lt;!-- Page 40 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 182 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F3 SetAttr Request (SAR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E, replyDescriptionThis message is used to request that a given set of attributes be assigned specified values for all objects of the specified type andexactly matching the specified attribute requirements. Certain attributes may not be changed through the interface. For adescription of filters, see S14,F1.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. L,i i = number of object instances requested1. ..i. 4\. L,n n = # attribute settings1. L,21. 2\. ..n. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf OBJSPEC is a zero-length item, no object specifier is provided.

&lt;!-- Page 41 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004183 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F4 SetAttr Data (SAD) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message is used to acknowledge that the attributes for the specified objects have been set as requested or to indicate an errorfor each attribute value that was not set as requested. The order of attributes is retained from the primary message.StructureL,21. L,i i = number of objects requested1. L,21. 2\. L,n n = number of attributes set.1. L,21. 2\. ..n. L,21. 2\. ..i. L,21. 2\. L,n1. L,21. 2\. ..n. L,21. 2\. 2\. L,21. 2\. L,p p = number of errors reported1. L,21. 2\. ..p. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf n = 0 for any object, the object was not found. If p = 0, no errors were detected.

&lt;!-- Page 42 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 184 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F5 GetType Request (GTR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request the types of objects owned by an object. This is an operation performed on an object type ratherthan on object instances. Wild characters ? and \* may be used as a filter for object types. Equipment is not required tosupport wild characters.StructureExceptionIf OBJSPEC is a zero-length item, no object specifier is provided. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F6 GetType Data (GTD)Description StructureL,21. L,n n = number of object types1. ..n. 2\. L,21. 2\. L,p p = number of errors reported1. L,21. 2\. ..p. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf n = 0, there are no owned object types. If p = 0, no errors were detected. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F7 GetAttrName Request (GANR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request the names of the attributes of specified types of owned objects. This is an operation performedon an object type rather than on object instances. Wild characters ? and \* may be used as a filter for object types.Equipment is not required to support wild characters.StructureL,21. 2\. L,n n = # of object types1. ..n. ExceptionIf OBJSPEC is a zero-length item, no object specifier is provided.

&lt;!-- Page 43 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004185 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F8 GetAttrName Data (GAND) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message contains the names of the attributes of the requested objects.StructureL,21. L,n n = number of object types1. L,21. 2\. L,a a = number of attributes1. ..a. ..n. L,21. 2\. L,b b = number of attributes1. ..b. 2\. L,21. 2\. L,p p = number of errors reported1. L,21. 2\. ..p. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf OBJSPEC is a zero-length item, no objects matched the specified filter. If p = 0, no errors were detected.

&lt;!-- Page 44 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 186 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F9 Create Object Request (COR) M,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request an object owner to create an object instance. OBJSPEC specifies the object owner.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. L,a a = # attributes requested1. L,21. 2\. ..a. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf OBJSPEC is a null-length item, no object specifier is provided. If a = 0, no specific attribute settings are requested for the newobject. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F10 Create Object Acknowledge (CAO) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message is used to acknowledge the success or failure of creating the new object specified. If successful, OBJSPEC is theobject specifier of the new object. The list of attributes returned is dependent upon the type of object specified.StructureL,31. 2\. L,b b = number of attributes returned1. L,21. 2\. ..b. L,21. 2\. 3\. L,21. 2\. L,p p = number of errors reported1. L,21. 2\. ..p. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf OBJSPEC is a null-length item, no object was created. If b = 0, no attributes of the new object are returned. If p = 0, no errorswere detected.

&lt;!-- Page 45 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004187 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F11 Delete Object Request S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request that the object specified in OBJSPEC be deleted. The list of attribute settings depends upon thetype of object to be deleted.StructureL,21. 2\. L,a n = # attribute settings1. L,21. 2\. ..a. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf n = 0, no attribute settings are provided. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F12 Delete Object Acknowledge (DOA) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message is used to acknowledge the success or failure of deleting the object specified. The list of attributes returned isdependent upon the type of object to be deleted.StructureL,21. L,b n = number of attributes returned1. L,21. 2\. ..b. L,21. 2\. 2\. L,21. 2\. L,p p = number of errors reported1. L,21. 2\. ..p. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf n = 0, no attribute values are returned. If p = 0, no errors were detected.

&lt;!-- Page 46 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 188 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F13 Object Attach Request (OAR) M,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is sent by a supervisor to request the object specified in OBJSPEC to attach or reattach itself to the requestor.StructureL,21. 2\. L,a a = # attribute settings1. L,21. 2\. ..a. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf a = 0, no attribute settings are provided. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F14 Object Attach Acknowledge (OAA) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message is used to acknowledge the success or failure of the requested attachment. If successful, a non-zero token shall bereturned for the supervisors use in subsequent communications with the attached object.StructureL,31. 2\. L,b b = number of attributes1. L,21. 2\. ..b. L,21. 2\. 3\. L,21. 2\. L,p p = number of errors reported1. L,21. 2\. ..p. L,21. 2\. ExceptionOBJTOKEN is zero if and only if p is non-zero. If b = 0, no attribute values are returned. If p = 0, no errors were detected.

&lt;!-- Page 47 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004189 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F15 Attached Object Action Request (AOAR) M,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used by a supervisor (only) to request an attached object to perform an action.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. L,a a = # attribute settings1. L,21. 2\. ..a. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf a = 0, no attribute settings are provided. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F16 Attached Object Action Acknowledge (AOAA) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message is used to acknowledge the success or failure of an action requested by a supervisor.StructureL,21. L,b b = number of attributes1. L,21. 2\. ..b. L,21. 2\. 2\. L,21. 2\. L,p p = number of errors reported1. L,21. 2\. ..p. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf p = 0, no errors were detected.

&lt;!-- Page 48 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 190 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F17 Supervised Object Action Request (SOAR) S,H&lt;-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request a supervisor to have a supervised attached object perform an action. OBJSPEC specifies thesupervisor, and TARGETSPEC specifies the attached object.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. L,a a = number of attribute settings1. L,21. 2\. ..a. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf a = 0, no attribute settings are provided. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F18 Supervised Object Action Acknowledge (SOAA) M,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionThis message is used to acknowledge the success or failure of an action requested of a supervisor.StructureL,21. L,b b = number of attributes1. L,21. 2\. ..b. L,21. 2\. 2\. L,21. 2\. L,p p = number of errors reported1. L,21. 2\. ..p. L,21. 2\. ExceptionIf b = 0, no attributes are returned. If p = 0, no errors were detected.

&lt;!-- Page 49 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004191 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS14,F19 Generic Service Request (GSR) M,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThe host requests an object to perform the specified service with its associated parameters. If multi-block, it shall be precededby the S14F23/F24 Multi-Block Inquire/Grant transaction. DATAID is given uniquely to each message. OPID is uniquelyspecified to identify delayed completion information for time consuming service. OPID could be zero if and only if the servicecannot take a long time.StructureL,51. 2\. 3\. 4\. 5\. L,m # of parameter groups1. L,21. service parameter 1 name2. service parameter 1 value2. L,21. service parameter 2 name2. service parameter 2 value..m. L,21. service parameter m name2. service parameter m value If a specific value of SPNAME is defined to have a SPVAL defined as a LIST, it shallalways be a LIST. If the SPVAL that is associated to that specific value of SPNAME isdefined to be anything other than LIST, it will result in a format error.ExceptionA zero length list, m = 0, indicates that no parameter groups are sent with the service request. OBJSPEC can be a null lengthitem if no object provide the services is defined in the standards which are referred to and it is assumed that Equipment isdelegated and handled as if it is an object.Notes:1. If some service parameters are attributes of the specified object, service parameter name-value pair, that is SPNAME andSPVAL, is actually attribute id-data pair, that is ATTRID and ATTRDATA. An example of parameter part in the messageformat could be interpreted as below. L,m1. L,21. 2\. 2\. L,2..k. L,21. 2\. ..m.  2. If SPVAL is a LIST, the items that make up that list shall take on one of the following forms: (1) a list of items with anidentical format, (2) a LIST of SPNAME, SPVAL pairs, as illustrated below. When SPVAL is actually ATTRDATA, even if itis a LIST, it or its parts are not required to expand into lower level items if their names have not been formally named in thecorresponding SEMI standard. A) L,21. 2\. L,m

&lt;!-- Page 50 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 192 1. 2\. ..m. B) L,21. 2\. L, n1. L,21. 2\. ..n. L,21. 2.

</PdfSplitView>
