---
title: "E5-1104 - © SEMI 1982, 2004..."
description: "SEMI标准文档"
sidebar_label: "E5-1104 - © SEMI 1982, 2004..."
sidebar_position: 27
tags: ['SEMI', 'Standard']
custom_props:
  source_type: 'pdf'
  source_file: 'semi-chapter-027.pdf'
  chapter: 27
  page_count: 50
---

import PdfDownloadCard from '@site/src/components/PdfDownloadCard';

<PdfDownloadCard
  pdfLink="/pdfs/semi/027.pdf"
  pdfSize="N/A"
  title="E5-1104 - © SEMI 1982, 2004..."
  description="SEMI标准文档，共50页"
/>



&lt;!-- Page 1 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004243 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS17,F9 Collection Event Link Request (CELR) M,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionEstablish a Collection Event Report definition with respect to a specific Event Source.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. L,n (n is the number of Reports to be linked)1. 2\. ..n. Exception Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS17,F10 Collection Event Link Acknowledge (CELA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionIndicate the success or failure of a Collection Event Link Request.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. ExceptionItem 3 should be set to zero length to indicate success. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS17,F11 Collection Event Unlink Request (CEUR) S,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionRequest to unlink a specific Data Report from a Collection Event Report.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. ExceptionItem one can be zero length, in which case the default event source is assumed.

&lt;!-- Page 2 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 244 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS17,F12 Collection Event Unlink Acknowledge (CEUA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionIndicates success or failure of a requested Unlink.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. ExceptionItem one can be zero length to indicate the default event source. Item 4 is set to zero length if the primary request wassuccessful. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS17,F13 Trace Reset Request (TRR) S,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThe Host requests the equipment to clear the data and reset the specified trace reports. If n = 0, then all defined Trace Objectswill be reset.StructureL,n1. 2\. ..n. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS17,F14 Trace Report Reset Acknowledge (TRRA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis list in item 1 contains the identifiers of all the Trace Objects which were reset. If all Trace Objects are successfully reset,then ACKA shall be set to TRUE.StructureL,21. 2\. L,m1. L,31. 2\. 3\. ..m. L,31. 2\. 3\. ExceptionIf ACKA is TRUE, then no errors were encountered, meaning all report requests were completed successfully and a zero-lengthlist (m = 0) shall be sent.If some reports could not be reset, then their TRIDs shall be given in a space separated list in ERRTEXT.

&lt;!-- Page 3 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004245 10.22 Stream 18 Subsystem Control and Data  Messages exchanged between component subsystems and higherlevel controllers. Compared to similar messages exchanged between equipment and host, subsystem messages areless complex. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F0 Abort Transaction (S18F0) S,H&lt;-&gt;EDescriptionUsed in lieu of an expected reply to abort a transaction. Function 0 is defined in every stream and has the same meaning in everystream.StructureHeader onlyException Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F1 Read Attribute Request (RAR) S,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message requests the current values of specified attributes of the subsystem component indicated in TARGETID.StructureL,21. 2\. L,n n = # attribute identifiers1. ..n. ExceptionIf n = 0, then all attributes of the target component are requested. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F2 Read Attribute Data (RAD) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message returns the current values of requested attributes and the current status of the requested component indicated inTARGETID. Attributes are returned in the order requested.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. L,n1. ..n. ExceptionBoth n = 0 and s = 0 if the target component is unknown.

&lt;!-- Page 4 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 246 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F3 Write Attribute Request (WAR) S,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message requests the subsystem to set the value of read/write attributes of the component specified in TARGETID.StructureL,21. 2\. L,n1. L,21. 2\. ..n. L,21. 2\. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F4 Write Attribute Acknowledge (WAA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message acknowledges the success of failure of the request to write attribute data to the subsystem indicated inTARGETID.StructureL, 31. 2\. 3\. Exceptions = 0 if the target component is unknown. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F5 Read Request (RR) S,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThe host requests the subsystem indicated in TARGETID to read information. DATASEG may be used to indicate a specificsection of data to be read. DATALENGTH is used to limit the amount of data for that section.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. ExceptionIf DATASEG and DATALENGTH are both omitted (are zero length items) then all data is requested. If DATALENGTH onlyis omitted, then all data within the indicated section is requested.

&lt;!-- Page 5 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004247 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F6 Read Data (RD) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message is used to return requested information from the subsystem indicated in TARGETID or to acknowledge the resultsof the request.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. L,s1. ..s. ExceptionIf TARGETID is unknown, then DATA is zero length. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F7 Write Data Request (WDR) S,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message requests to write data to the subsystem component indicated in TARGETID. DATASEG may be used to indicate aspecific section of data to be written or overwritten.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. ExceptionIf DATASEG and DATALENGTH are both omitted (are zero length items) then all data is to be overwritten. If onlyDATALENGTH is omitted, then all data within the indicated section is to be written. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F8 Write Data Acknowledge (WDA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message acknowledges the success or failure of writing data to the subsystem indicated in TARGETID.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. Exceptions = 0 if and only if TARGETID is unknown.

&lt;!-- Page 6 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 248 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F9 Read ID Request (RIR) S,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request the subsystem indicated by TARGETID to read an identifier.StructureExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F10 Read ID Data (RID) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message returns a requested material identifier MID as read by the subsystem indicated in TARGETID.StructureL,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. Exceptions = 0 if and only if TARGETID is unknown. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F11 Write ID Request (WIR) S,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request the subsystem indicated by TARGETID to write an identifier.StructureL,21. 2\. ExceptionNone Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F12 Write ID Acknowledge (WIA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message acknowledges the success or failure of the subsystem specified in TARGETID in writing the ID.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. Exceptions = 0 if and only if TARGETID is unknown.

&lt;!-- Page 7 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004249 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F13 Subsystem Command Request (SCR) S,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThis message is used to request the subsystem indicated in TARGETID to perform a specific action.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. L,n1. ..n. ExceptionIf n = 0, no parameters are provided. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F14 Subsystem Command Acknowledge (SCA) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message reports the results from the subsystem specified in TARGETID for the requested action.StructureL,31. 2\. 3\. Exceptions = 0 if and only if TARGETID is unknown. Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F15 Read 2D Code Condition Request (R2DCCR) S,H-&gt;E,replyDescriptionThe host requests the subsystem indicated in TARGETID to read information on 2D Code Condition.StructureExceptionNone

&lt;!-- Page 8 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 250 Stream,Function Name (Mnemonic) DirectionS18,F16 Read 2D Code Condition Data (R2DCCD) S,H&lt;-EDescriptionThis message is used to return requested information on 2D Code Condition from the subsystem indicated in TARGETID or toacknowledge the results of the request.StructureL,51. 2\. 3\. 4\. 5\. ExceptionIf is failure, the length of the must be zero. 11 Message Documentation11.1 Intent  Equipment makers using SECS-IImessages must communicate the equipment-specificdetails of each message to the host designer in order forthe host to properly adapt to the equipment. The detailsare communicated in a document which will follow astandard form in order to convey most clearly theinformation required. The following form is presentedhere to act as a guide for organizing the equipment-specific details.11.2 Standard Form SECS-II Document  Thestandard form will contain three clearly labeled parts asfollows.Part I  General InformationPart II  Message SummaryPart III  Message Detail11.2.1 Part I will contain general information on thefollowing: Manufacturer and product number General description of equipment function Intended function of interface Software revision code Changes from previous versions11.2.2 Part II will contain two lists of all messagesunderstood and all messages sent by the equipment interms of their stream and function codes. The first listwill have pairs of columns: the first for the messagereceived and understood and the second for the messagesent in response. The second list will also have twocolumns: the first for the message sent and the secondfor the response understood. The message will beidentified using the format SxxFyy, where xx is the stream number and yy is the function number. Eachtransaction will be on a separate line. A - willindicate that one of a pair is not included. All messagesnot listed on the received side are implied to cause anerror message to the host. All messages not listed onthe sent side are assumed never to be sent from theequipment. Since some messages can be sent in twodirections, the same message pair may appear in eachlist with the sent and received orders interchanged. Atransaction listed in the standard as being allowed intwo directions does not have to be implemented in bothdirections. This list will indicate which directions areimplemented.11.2.3 Part III will contain the details for everymessage listed in Part II. Messages that appear on boththe sent and received sides must be detailed separately.The details shall include the following information onthe data in each message:1. For each fixed item, all the values or strings eitherunderstood or possible to send are listed along withtheir meaning to the equipment.2. For each variable item, the restriction on orpossible range of value or length of string.3. Any other special interpretation of the message.11.2.4 Each message so detailed must be clearlylabeled with its stream and function code. 12 Units of Measure12.1 Intent  Certain SECS-II transactions requirespecification of units of measure for data items passedbetween equipment and host. The concept of units ofmeasure has been included as part of the SECS-II stan-dard to enhance the ability of the host system to promptits human operators for proper information when gener-ating process programs, and also to facilitate automated

&lt;!-- Page 9 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004251 handling of process programs by host systems and auto-mated handling of data reported to a host by equipment.12.2 Units Symbols  Under SECS-II, a units symbolis a text string of unspecified length which specifies thephysical significance of a numeric value. Units ofmeasure symbols under SECS-II may be either a SECS-II recognized unit identifier, a SECS-II unit identifierwith prefix and/or suffix symbols, or an arithmeticexpression of SECS-II identifiers.12.2.1 A SECS-II units identifier is a text string whichmay be the full name, an abbreviation of the full name,or a special character which is unique for a specific unitof weight or measure. Identifier strings may consist ofupper or lower case alphabetic characters and numeralsor special characters of the ASCII character set. Thefirst character of an identifier may not be a numeral.The case of alphabetic characters is significant (e.g., Gand g, the units symbols for Gauss and gram,respectively).12.2.2 A unit identifier may be nationally or inter-nationally recognized, may be unique to thesemiconductor industry, or, due to the specialrequirements of SECS-II, may be unique to this stan-dard. Section 12.4 lists all units identifiers recognizedby SECS-II. For each identifier defined in Section12.4, six pieces of information are provided. They are:1. Unit  Full name of the unit of measure inquestion.2. Unit Identifier  SECS-II-recognized identifier forthe unit.3. Prefix Allowed  Specifies whether or not the unitidentifier may be combined with a prefix symbol togenerate a unit identifier which is a decimalmultiple or submultiple of the base unit. Metric (orSI) units are usually capable of accepting a prefixsymbol while English units may not.4. Suffix Allowed  Specifies whether or not theunit identifier may be concatenated with a numericsuffix which provides additional information to themeaning of the associated unit symbol. Thenumeric suffix is composed of the ASCII digits 0through 9 and represents a decimal value. Thismeaning of the numeric value is symbol-dependentand must be specified in the description section ofthe unit symbols definition.5. Equivalence  In those cases where a unit can beexpressed as an arithmetic expression (of simplerunits), this column will contain the expression ofsimpler units. For those units which are non-standard to either of the standard systems of unitsof measure (English or SI), this column willcontain an expression which relates the non- standard unit to the equivalent unit of the standardunits system. In either case, the expressionprovided in this column may be substituted for thecorresponding SECS-II units identifier wheneverrequired.6. Description  Additional information as may berequired to uniquely define the unit of measure inquestion.12.2.3 Any SECS-II identifier which Section 12.4indicates as being capable of taking on a prefix symbolmay be appended to one of the prefix symbols shown inTable 23, forming a new unit which is a decimalmultiple or submultiple of the base unit. A prefixsymbol may not be used alone. It must appearconcatenated to one of the identifiers in Section 12.4.Finally, only one prefix symbol may appear before anyidentifier. A units symbol such as mus(micromillisecond) is not allowed. The proper symbolis ns (nanosecond).

&lt;!-- Page 10 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 252 Table 23Prefix Name Multiplicative Factor Prefix Symbolexa 10^18 Epeta 10^15 PTera 10^12 Tgiga 10^9 Gmega 10^6 Mkilo 10^3 khecto 10^2 hdeka (deca) 10^1 dadeci 10^-1 dcenti 10^-2 cmilli 10^-3 mmicro 10^-6 unano 10^-9 npico 10^-12 pfemto 10^-15 fatto 10^-18 a 12.2.4 Any SECS-II identifier which Section 12.4indicates as being capable of taking on a suffix valuemay have a numeric string appended to it. This decimalvalue allows the user to identify one of a family ofsymbol names with only the generic symbol name ofthe family being defined in Section 12.4. The meaningof a numeric suffix is dependent on the particularsymbol with which it is being used and must be definedin the description section of the symbol definition.12.2.5 Arithmetic expressions of units of measureidentifiers are recognized by SECS-II as units symbolsif they are formed by the following rules:1. All units identifiers in the expression are SECS-IIunits identifiers defined in Section 12.4 or SECS-IIprefixed units identifiers as defined above.2. Exponentiation is denoted by a circumflex (^)between the identifier to be operated on and theexponent. Exponents may be positive or negativevalues. A negative value is denoted by a unaryminus sign (-) between the circumflex andexponent. For positive values, the exponent willimmediately follow the circumflex (A^2 or A^-2).3. Multiplication of units identifiers is expressed byan asterisk (\*) positioned between the factors to bemultiplied (A\*B). 4. Division of units identifiers is expressed by a slash(/) positioned between the dividend and divisor.Division may also be expressed as the product ofthe dividend and the divisor with a negativeexponent (A/B or A\*B^-1).5. Parentheses may be used to specify the order inwhich the arithmetic operations will be performed.6. Within expressions or sub-expressions whereparentheses do not specify the order of operations,exponentiation will be carried out first, followed byleft-to-right evaluation of all multiplication anddivision that is (A\*B^-2\*30\*C^2) is equivalent to(((A/(B^2))\*30)\*(C^2)).12.3 Compliance  For the units of measureinformation to have any value and to be in compliancewith SECS-II, equipment and host systemmanufacturers must ensure that only units symbolsallowed by SECS-II are used by their systems. In thoseinstances where SECS-II does not provide a unitssymbol required for a particular application, themanufacturer requiring the new symbol may submit aproposal to the SEMI Communications Subcommitteerequesting the enhancement. A proposal must includeall the information provided by each entry of Section12.4 as described above.12.3.1 A proposal must undergo the full approval cycleas prescribed by SECS-II for amending a standard(acceptance by committee, balloting, etc.). As a result,the proposal should be submitted as soon as possible, sothat sufficient time is available to complete the standardamendment process and to notify all interested partiesof the change before the product requiring the newsymbol becomes available for use in a manufacturingfacility.12.4 SECS-II Units of Measure Identifiers  All unitsof measure symbols recognized by SECS-II are definedin this section or are compound symbols based on theidentifiers defined here and formed by the rules speci-fied in Section 12.2. Portions of the informationprovided below have been obtained from ANSI/IEEE260-1978, ANSI X3.5-1976, ISO 2955-1974(E),Websters New World Collegiate Dictionary (copyright1977), and the CRC Handbook of Chemistry andPhysics (52nd edition for 1971-1972).

&lt;!-- Page 11 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004253 Table 24 SECS-II Units of Measure IdentifiersUnit Identifier Equivalence PrefixAllowedSuffixAllowedDescription Non-dimensionalquantities (purenumbers) null string None No No For all quantities which have no associated unit ofmeasure, a zero length (null) text string is theappropriate identifier to use when units ofmeasure information is required.ampere A None Yes No SI unit of electric current.ampere (turn) AT None Yes No SI unit of magnetomotive force.angstrom Ang m\*10^-10 Yes No Unit of length used when measuring wavelengthof light.atmosphere, standard atm 101325\*Pa No No A unit of pressure.atmosphere, technical at kgf/cm^2 No No A unit of pressure.atomic mass unit(unified)u 1.660531\*10^-27\*kg No No One twelfth the mass of an atom of carbon 12nuclide.bar bar 100\*kPa Yes No CGS unit of pressure.barn barn 10^-28\*m^2 Yes No Unit for measuring capture cross sections ofelements.barrel (petroleum) bbl 42\*gal or 158.99\*1 No No A unit of volume.baud Bd bit/s Yes No Telecommunications measure of data transfer rateequivalent to one bit of information transferredper second.bel B None Yes No The logarithm of the ratio of two power signals.Becquerel Bq None Yes No SI unit of activity of a radionuclide.bit bit None Yes No A unit of computer information equivalent to thechoice between two alternatives (as yes or no, onor off).boat boat None No Yes Special SECS generic unit corresponding to aholder of wafers or packages with discretepositions. The unit capacity is specified by thesymbols suffix, if provided. Otherwise, thecapacity is situation-dependent.British thermal unit Btu 1054.35\*J No No The quantity of heat required to raise thetemperature of one pound of water one degreeFahrenheit at or near 39.2F.byte byte 8\*bit Yes No Unit of storage for computer memory.calorie (InternationalTable)callIT 4.1868\*J Yes No Defined by the 1929 International Stream TableConference to be 1/860 international joules orl/859.858 joules.calorie(thermochemical)cal 4.l840\*J Yes No Unit of energy defined by the NBS to be 4.184joules. Also, called the gram calorie.candela cd None Yes No SI unit of luminous intensity.candle cd None Yes No Alternate name for candela.carrier carrier None No Yes Special SECS generic unit corresponding to aholder for substrates, wafers or wafer frames. Theunit capacity is specified by the symbols suffix, ifprovided. Otherwise, the capacity is situation-dependent.cassette css None No Yes Special SECS generic unit corresponding to aholder for wafers or wafer frames. The unitcapacity is specified by the symbols suffix, ifprovided. Otherwise, the capacity is situation-dependent.Coulomb C A\*s Yes No SI unit of electric charge.

&lt;!-- Page 12 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 254 Unit Identifier Equivalence PrefixAllowedSuffixAllowedDescription curie Ci 3.7\*l0^l0\*Bq No No A unit of activity of radionuclide.cycle c None Yes No Unit equivalent to one complete performance of aperiodic process.darcy D cP\*(cm/s)(cm/atm)or 0.986923\*um^2No No Unit of permeability of a porous medium. Bytraditional definition, a permeability of one darcywill permit a flow of 1 cm^3/s of fluid of 1 cPviscosity through an area of 1 cm^2 under apressure gradient of 1 atm/cm.day (mean solar) d 24\*h No No The period required for the Earth to complete onerotation about its axis.degree (plane angle) deg pi/180\*rad No No One three hundred sixtieth part of thecircumference of a circle.degree Celsius degC None No No Unit of temperature where 0C corresponds to thefreezing point of water and l00C corresponds tothe boiling point at standard atmosphericconditions.degree Fahrenheit degF None No No Unit of temperature where 32F corresponds tothe freezing point of water and 212F correspondsto the boiling point at standard atmosphericconditions.degree Kelvin K None No No SI unit of temperature.die die None No No Special SECS generic unit corresponding to anindividual integrated circuit both on a wafer andafter wafer separation. Also referred to as a bar orchip.dyne dyn 10^-5\*N Yes No Unit of force in the cgs system. One dyne is theforce required to provide a one grain mass with anacceleration of 1 cm/s^2.electronvolt eV l.60209\*10^-19\*J Yes No Energy acquired by a small particle carrying aunit electronic charge when it falls through apotential difference of one volt.erg erg l0^-7\*J Yes No Unit of work or energy in the cgs system. Oneerg is equal to the work done or energy expendedto exert a force of one dyne through a distance of1 cm.farad F A\*s/V Yes No SI unit of capacitance.foot ft 12\*in No No English unit of length.footcandle Fc lm/ft^2 No No Unit of illuminance. Also called lumen per squarefoot.footlambert FL (1/pi)\*cd/ft^2 No No A unit of luminance. One lumen per square footleaves a surface whose luminance is onefootlambert in all directions within a hemisphere.gal Gal cm/s^2 Yes No A unit of acceleration used especially for valuesof gravity.gallon (US) gal 23l\*in^3 or 4\*qt or3.7854\*1No No United States version of English system unit ofvolume.gallon (UK) galUK 4.546l\*l No No United Kingdom version of English system unit ofvolume.gauss G Mx/cm^2 Yes No Electromagnetic CGS unit of magnetic fluxdensity.gilbert Gb l0/(4\*pi)\*AT Yes No Electromagnetic CGS unit of magnetomotiveforce.grain gr .0022857l43\*oz No No English unit of weight.gram g None Yes No One thousandth of the SI unit of mass.

&lt;!-- Page 13 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004255 Unit Identifier Equivalence PrefixAllowedSuffixAllowedDescription gram-force gf 9.80665\*N\*10^-3 Yes No The weight of a gram mass when subjected to themean gravitational attraction of the Earth.gray Gy Unknown Yes No SI unit of absorbed dose in the field of radiationdosimetry.henry H V\*s/A Yes No SI unit of inductance.hertz Hz c/s Yes No SI unit of frequency.horsepower (electric) hp 746\*W No No Archaic unit of power.hour h 60\*min No No Derived unit of time.inch in 2.54\*cm No No English unit of length.conventional inch ofmercuryinHg 3386.4\*Pa No No Unit equivalent to the pressure required to balancea one inch high column of mercury in amanometer at 32F.conventional inch ofwaterinH2O 249.09\*Pa No No Unit equivalent to the pressure required to balancea one inch high column of water in a manometerat 4C.ingot ing None No No Special SECS generic unit corresponding to theentity of semiconductor manufacture from whichwafers are made.ion ion None No No SECS II unique symbol equivalent to an atom thatcarries an electric charge as a result of losing orgaining electrons.joule J N\*m Yes No SI unit of energy, work, and quantity of heat.kelvin K None No No SI unit of temperature. Also referred to as degreeKelvin.kilopound force klbf l000\*lbf No No A multiple of the English unit of force or weight.knot kn nmi/h No No Unit of velocity expressed in nautical miles perhour.lambert L (l/pi)\*cd/cm^2 Yes No CGS unit of luminance. One lumen per squarecentimeter leaves a surface whose luminance isone lambert in all directions within a hemisphere.leadframe ldfr None No Yes Special SECS generic unit corresponding to astructure for leads which is removed afterpackaging. The structure may be fixed length or areel. The unit capacity is specified by thesymbols suffix, if provided. Otherwise, thecapacity is situation-dependent.liter l 10^-3\*m^3 Yes No A metric unit of volume.lot lot None No No Special SECS generic unit corresponding to agrouping of material which is undergoing thesame processing operations. The amount ofmaterial represented by 1 lot is situation-dependent.lumen lm cd\*sr Yes No SI unit of luminous flux.lux lx lm/m^2 Yes No SI unit of illuminance.magazine mgz None No Yes Special, SECS generic unit corresponding to aholder of fixed length leadframes. The unitcapacity is specified by the symbols suffix, ifprovided. Otherwise, the capacity is situation-dependent.maxwell Mx 10^-8\*Wb Yes No Electromagnetic CGS unit of magnetic flux.meter m None Yes No SI unit of length.metric ton t 10^3\*kgf No No Unit of weight of force.mho mho S Yes No Previous name for the SI unit siemens.

&lt;!-- Page 14 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 256 Unit Identifier Equivalence PrefixAllowedSuffixAllowedDescription micron um l0^-6\*m No No Alternate name for a micrometer.conventional micron ofmercuryumHg 133.32\*Pa\*10^-3 No No Unit of pressure. mil mil 10^-3\*in No No English unit of length.mile mi 5280\*ft No No English unit of length.conventional millimeterof mercurymmHg 133.322\*Pa No No Unit of pressure. millimicron nm 10^-9\*m No No Alternate name for nanometer.minute (plane angle) mins deg/60 No No One sixtieth of a degree (plane angle).minute(time) min 60\*s No No Unit of time.mole mol 6.02252\*l0^23 No No SI unit of number of entities within a substance.month mo None No No Unit of time.nautical mile nmi 1852\*m No No English unit of measurement.neper Np 0.1l51\*dB Yes No Unit for expressing ratios of power levels.newton N kg\*m/s^2 Yes No SI unit of force.nit nt cd/m^2 Yes No Alternate name for the SI unit of luminance,candela per square meter.oersted Oe 79.577472\*A/m Yes No Electromagnetic CGS unit of magnetic fieldstrength.ohm ohm V/A Yes No SI unit of resistance.ounce (avoirdupois) oz lbf/16 No No English unit of weightpackage pkg None No No Special SECS generic unit corresponding to anindividual entity both as a place for the die toreside and as a completed unit.pascal Pa N/m^2 Yes No SI unit of pressure or stress.percent % 1/100 No No Ratio of parts per hundred.phot ph lm/cm^2 Yes No CGS unit of illuminance.pH pH 1 No No Normalized measure of acidity or alkalinity.pint (UK) ptUK 0.56826\*1 No No United Kingdom version of English unit ofcapacity.pint (US dry) ptUS 0.55061\*1 No No United States version of English unit of drycapacity.pint (US liquid) pt 0.47318\*1 No No United States version of English unit of liquidcapacity.plate plt None No Yes Special SECS generic unit corresponding to atemporary fixture used to hold die duringassembly operations. The unit capacity isspecified by the symbols suffix, if provided.Otherwise, the capacity is situation-dependent.poise P 36\*N\*s/m^2, or36\*kg/(m\*s)Yes No A CGS unit of viscosity equal to the viscosity of afluid that would require a shearing force of onedyne to move a square centimeter area of either oftwo parallel layers of fluid one centimeter apartwith a velocity of one centimeter per secondrelative to the other layer, with the space betweenthe layers being filled with fluid.pound lb 0.0310810\*slug No No English unit of mass.pound-force lbf 4.4482217\*N No No English unit of force or weight.poundal pdl 0.0310810\*lbf No No Force required to accelerate a one pound mass atone ft/s^2.parts per million ppm 1/I0^6 No No Ratio of parts per million.

&lt;!-- Page 15 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004257 Unit Identifier Equivalence PrefixAllowedSuffixAllowedDescription quart (UK) qtUK 1.1365\*1 No No United Kingdom version of an English unit ofcapacity.quart (US dry) qtUS 1.1012\*1 No No United States version of an English unit of drycapacity.quart (US liquid) qt 0.94635\*1 No No United States version of an English unit of liquidcapacity.rad rd 10^-2\*Gy Yes No A unit of absorbed dose in the field of radiationdosimetry.radian rad None Yes No SI unit of plane angle.rem rem 10^-2\*Sv Yes No A unit of dose equivalent in the field of radiationdosimetry.revolution r c No No One complete cycle of a rotating body.roentgen R Unknown No No A unit of exposure in the field of radiationdosimetry.second (plane angle) sec mins/60 No No One sixtieth of a minute of a degree.second (time) s None Yes No SI unit of time.siemens S 1/ohm SI unitofconductance. Yes No sievert Sv Unknown Yes No SI unit of dose equivalent in the field of radiationdosimetry.slug slug 14.5939\*kg No No English unit of mass.standard cubiccentimeter per minutesccm cc/min No No A unit of flow equivalent to one cubic centimeterof a gas at standard temperature and pressureflowing past a point in one minute.standard liter perminuteslpm 1/min No No A unit of flow equivalent to one liter of a gas atstandard temperature and pressure flowing past apoint in one minute.steradian Sr Unknown Yes No SI unit of solid angle.stilb sb cd/cm^2 Yes No A CGS unit of luminance.stokes St P\*cm^3/g Yes No A CGS unit of kinematic viscosity.substrate substrate None No No Special SECS generic unit corresponding to theentity of material being operated on, processed orfabricated.tesla T N/(A\*m) or Wb/m^2 Yes No SI unit of magnetic flux density (magneticinduction).therm thm 10^5\*Btu No No An English unit of energy.ton (short) ton 2000\*lbf No No English unit of weight.torr torr mmHg Yes No Pressure unit. Alternative name for millimeters ofmercury.tube tube None No Yes Special SECS generic unit corresponding to aholder of packages arranged in a flow. The unitcapacity is specified by the symbols suffix, ifprovided. Otherwise, the capacity is situation-dependent.var var Unknown Yes No SI unit for reactive power.volt V W/A Yes No SI unit of voltage.wafer wfr None No No Special SECS generic unit corresponding to theentity of material on which semiconductor devicesare fabricated.

&lt;!-- Page 16 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 258 Unit Identifier Equivalence PrefixAllowedSuffixAllowedDescription waferframe wffr None No Yes Special SECS generic unit corresponding to atemporary fixture for wafers. The unit capacity isspecified by the symbols suffix, if provided.Otherwise, the capacity is situation-dependent.watt W J/s Yes No SI unit of power.watthour Wh 3600\*J Yes No Unit of energy.weber Wb V\*s Yes No SI unit of magnetic flux.year yr None No No Unit of time. NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the standard set forth herein for anyparticular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard is solely the responsibility of the user.Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturers instructions, product labels, product data sheets, and other relevantliterature respecting any materials mentioned herein. These standards are subject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility that compliance with this standard may require use of copyrightedmaterial or of an invention covered by patent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMI takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any item mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility.

&lt;!-- Page 17 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004259 RELATED INFORMATION 1APPLICATION NOTES NOTICE: The material contained in this Related Information section is not an official part of SEMI E5 and is notintended to modify or supersede the official standard. Rather, these notes describe possible methods forimplementing the protocol described by the standard and are included as reference material. The standard should bereferred to in all cases. SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitability of the material set forthherein for any particular application. The determination of the suitability of the material is solely the responsibilityof the user. R1-1 The General Node Transaction ProtocolR1-1.1 This application note has been moved to followSEMI E4 (SECS-I) as Application Note A7. R1-2 Some Suggested Message UsageR1-2.1 The number of messages implemented and thechoice of messages are greatly influenced by the actualfunction of the equipment. To illustrate whichmessages might be appropriate, the followingsuggestions are offered for a variety of different typesof equipment capabilities. It is assumed that theminimum message sets S1,F1; F2 and S9,F1; F3; F5;F7 are always implemented.R1-2.2 For equipment which makes nondestructive in-process measurements using a fixed measurementprocedure, it may be necessary only to implement S6,F9 to send the data according to a fixed format uponmeasurement. Optional remote control can be addedwith S2,F21 to start a measurement.R1-2.3 If the equipment has a variety of measurementroutines, it might be desirable to respond to S1,F5 withS1,F6, which would give the host a brief report of thetest being made. The test can be thought of as a processprogram. Accordingly, S7,F1 and S7,F2 could be usedfor the host to select the program. The same messagesin conjunction with S7,F3 and S7,F4 could load a newtest procedure. S7,F19 could be used by the host tofind out what tests were available.R1-2.4 Some equipment which automatically processeswafers in a batch might make more extensive use ofS1,F5 or S1,F3 and might include some error reportingon S5,F1. More sophisticated equipment may includesome trace features with S2,F23 and S6,F1 or somecontrol loop tuning by S2,F15.R1-2.5 Equipment using in-line wafer movement couldutilize Stream 4, S1,F9, and Stream 3 to keep track ofwafers.R1-2.6 Stream 7,F9 through F19 can be used tomanage a local backup of process programs should thehost fail for a short while. R1-2.7 Microprocessor equipment can benefit fromfeatures such as provided by Stream 8 and S2,F1through F12 which allow managing and servicing thesoftware routines.R1-2.8 Equipment, including a CRT, might elect tomake it available to the host by including Stream 10messages.R1-2.9 Some equipment, such as functional testers,might have sufficient need to undertake remote fileusage such as provided in Stream 13.R1-2.10 These brief suggestions serve to illustrate thatthe final choice of the messages included in a givenequipment depends upon its function. The messagescan be viewed as interface features in the same way thatother parts of the equipment are viewed as processingfeatures or wafer handling features. R1-3 Notes on SECS-II Data TransfersR1-3.1 IntroductionR1-3.1.1 There are two primary ways to send and askfor data in SECS-II. One of these is to use the tracefeature and the other is to use the event reportingmethod. The purpose of this note is to describe theintended operation of the messages described in theexisting standard. Discussion of completeness or needfor other reporting methods is left for task force andcommittee work.R1-3.2 Trace Data Collection and ReportingR1-3.2.1 This method of collecting data is intended forengineering and developmental use rather than routinedata collection for production. The features includedallow the collection of relatively large amounts of realtime data over a finite amount of time. The data isgenerated at regular time intervals as determined by atiming generator in the equipment. The function of thehost is to set up the trace and then to subsequently storethe data as it is received from the equipment. It isassumed that some host resident applications will existto analyze the data either as it is received or at somelater time.

&lt;!-- Page 18 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 260 R1-3.2.2 The trace feature will only exist in equipmentwhich implements it.R1-3.2.3 The host sets up the trace with the S2,F23-24transaction. At this time, the host assigns severalimportant parameters. TRID is the trace request ID andis used later when the equipment sends back the data.Every trace data reply includes the TRID correspondingto the request that set up the trace. Several traces cantheoretically be done at the same time if the equipmentallows it and the TRID keeps the data for each tracedistinct from other trace data. DSPER is the datasample period and is used to indicate how often thespecified parameters should be sampled (that is, havetheir values saved). TOTSMP is the total number ofsamples to be made. Since TOTSMP is finite and thenumber of parameters is specified in this transaction,the host can reserve adequate file space for the reporteddata if required. The REPGSZ is the reporting groupsize and corresponds to the number of time samples thatshould be combined into one message prior totransmission. Thus, if it is desired to sample one or twoparameters every second but only send those samples tothe host once a minute, the reporting group size wouldbe 60. Having the reporting group size parameterallows the host to have some control over how often itmay be interrupted to handle the trace data. However,as presently defined in the standard, the trace data isreported as a single block message (S6,F1), whichrestricts both the number of status variables or thenumber of samples which can be combined into onemessage. The equipment may be able to accommodatethis in several ways, to be described shortly.R1-3.2.3.1 The last element in the trace initializerequest is a list of status variable IDs. The tracecommand only allows tracing variables that have beendeclared and are known to the equipment as statusvariables. It is assumed that the equipment will reportthe variable values in the same order as specified in thetrace request. This will allow the host to identify thevalues returned.R1-3.2.4 The trace data send message, S6,F1-2, sendsthe trace data as a single block message to minimize theoverhead in reporting data. The TRID is the first itemand identifies the request that asked for the data. Thenext item is SMPLN, the sample number of the lastsample in this message, should more than one samplebe combined. The next item is STIME which is thetime of the last sample in this message. These threeitems are followed by the list of values. If five (5)values were requested with a reporting group size of 5,then 25 values would be in this list, each group of 5 inthe same order as requested and in the time ordersampled. Some flexibility is allowed in how theequipment chooses to report the data to the host when the reporting group size exceeds one block of data. Theequipment can send the data when it has a completeblock or it can reject the request when it is set up.R1-3.3 Event Driven Data ReportingR1-3.3.1 The second major type of data reporting isinitiated by some event in the equipment. Datareporting is often desired after some event such as thecompletion of a measurement, the completion of a lot,the completion of a wafer, the occurrence of a specialevent command in the recipe, or some other actionwhich is determined by the equipment. The two aspectsinvolved in event driven data reporting are the controlof which events cause data to be sent to the host and theformatting of the data sent to the host.R1-3.3.2 It is assumed that a set of events has beenestablished for a particular piece of equipment and thateach event can produce a report of some sort. It isfurther assumed that a set of equipment constants existin the machine such that they have control over theoptional reporting of the events. For example, aboolean constant may exist for each possible reportingevent, and when the host sets the constant to a logical 1,the corresponding event will cause a report to be sent tothe host, when the host sets the constant to logical 0, theevent will not send a report. S2,F15-16 in theequipment constant send transaction can be used tocontrol the event reporting.R1-3.3.3 When an event causes data to be sent to thehost, there are several possible conversations,depending upon the length of the data and thecomplexity of the formatting. S6,F3-4 is the basic datatransaction, which has a very general format. Theparameters provide for an overall name, DATAID, forthe type of data; a collection event identification, CEID,should there be more than one event that could generatethe same type of data; and a list of data sets. Thisstructure allows reporting such data as themeasurements taken on each of the wafers in a lot. Themeasurements on each wafer make up one data set, andthe list of data sets is the whole lot. The collectionevent would be the lot completion, and the data IDmight be film thickness measurements. Other types oforganizations are possible, depending upon the type ofdata being sent. The same type of data might beproduced by a different CEID, such as the forcedtermination of the lot. This collection ID wouldindicate that the data is incomplete for the lot. Withineach data set, each data value is reported as a pair ofitems, one item being the name of the value and theother being the value.R1-3.3.4 Since many simple measuring devices haveonly a very few types of data sets, an alternative dataformat is provided in S6,F9-10, which has the same

&lt;!-- Page 19 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004261 form as S6,F3-4 but does not require the value name inthe data set. Instead, the order of the values is fixedformat for the particular DSID in that particularequipment.R1-3.3.5 When either of the above data messages islong enough to require multiple blocks, it must bepreceded by S6,F5-6 to gain permission to send amultiple block message.R1-3.3.6 The last data control transaction is S6,F7-8,which is initiated by the host and causes a specifiedDATAID to be sent to the host. The implementation ofthis function is highly equipment-dependent. Inessence, it is equivalent to the host causing an eventthat triggers the sending of the data. Since theequipment may be generating the data, the actual datasent depend upon the equipment implementation. Theequipment can respond with a zero length item if nodata can be sent.R1-3.4 Event ReportingR1-3.4.1 The third major type of data reporting issimilar to that described in A3.3 above, with thefollowing enhancements:1. Contents of data reports are not limited toDVVALs, but may include SVs or even ECVs.2. Contents of data reports are user programmable.R1-3.4.2 It is assumed that the equipment vendorsupplies a list of all events identified within aparticular piece of equipment. A Collection EventIdentifier (CEID) must be specified for each of theseevents. It is further assumed that the vendor supplies alist of all available variables within the machine. Thisincludes Status Variables (SVs) and their identifiers(SVIDs), Equipment constants (ECVs) and theiridentifiers (ECIDs), and Data Values (DVVALs) andtheir identifiers(DVNAMEs). Each of the identifiersmust be unique. The term VID (Variable Identifier)encompasses all SVIDs, ECIDs, and DVNAMEs.Likewise, the term V (Variable Data) encompasses allSVs, ECVs, and DVVALs.R1-3.4.3 Note that a Variable (V) may be a list (formatcode 0). This provides for referencing a group ofrelated data values with one identifier. Consider thefollowing: VID 1 = 1 zone 1 temperature ID Format 32V1 zone 1 temperature value Format 52..VID n = n zone n temperature ID Format 32Vn zone n temperature value Format 52VID x = x all temperatures ID Format 32Vx L,n Format 01. L,21. 2\. ..n. L,21. 2\. Any V in a list may also be a list (for nesting).R1-3.4.4 In a typical initialization sequence, the hostwould define all the desired programmable data reportswith S2,F33/S2,F34 (Define Report) transactions. ThenS2,F35/S2,F36 (Link Report/Event) transactions wouldbe used to define which reports are to be made by theequipment upon specific events (CEIDs). Anindividual report may be linked to more than one event.At this point the host may request reports with theS6,F15/S6,F16 (Report Request) transactions to obtaininitial report data and/or to verify reports as defined andlinked. Finally, the desired reports would be enabledby the host with S2,F37/S2,F38 (Enable/Disable EventReport) transactions.R1-3.4.5 There are two methods for the equipment tosend event reports to the host. S6,F13 includes theVariable Identifier (VID) with each Variable Data item(V). S6,F11 is a shorter form, without the identifiers;some users prefer this form to reduce message size.R1-3.4.6 When any message is long enough to requiremultiple blocks, it must be preceded by an inquire/granttransaction.The DATAID parameter is used only to linkthe inquire/grant transaction with a multiblock message.This linkage is to alleviate problems in the case ofinterleaved messages. A unique value for DATAIDmust be used for each Inquire/Grant/Send/Ack-nowledge conversation (similar to the use ofSYSBYTES in SECS-I). The DATAID parametershould not be used for any other purpose. R1-4 Process ProgramsR1-4.1 IntroductionR1-4.1.1 Two forms of process programs are supportedby SECS-II: unformatted and formatted. The contentsof an unformatted process program conform to no setstandard. The format of the program is defined by thevendor of the equipment and probably bears nosimilarity to the format used by other vendors for their

&lt;!-- Page 20 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 262 equipment. Because special programming would berequired at the host to understand the equipmentsunique data format, the process program is most likelygenerated at the machine and the host is only used as adata repository, saving the foreign data for laterretransmission to the equipment. S7,F3 and S7,F6 arethe SECS-II messages used to move unformattedprocess programs between host and equipment.R1-4.1.2 Unformatted process programs were theoriginal accepted means for moving processinginstructions between host and equipment under SECS-II. However, the inability of a host to generate processprograms for its subordinate machines was quicklyrecognized as a severe problem. As a result, theformatted process program and its associatedtransactions were added. Five transactions are providedunder SECS-II for handling formatted processprograms: S7,F23-24, S7,F25-26 allow movement ofprocess programs between host and equipment; S7,F21-22 originates at a machine and provides a host with theinformation it needs to generate a process program forthat machine; S7,F27-28 allows the equipment to tellthe host whether or not the contents of the formattedprocess program received from the host are valid; andS7,F31-32 provides the host with the ability to ask theequipment to check the validity of a process programwithout actually downloading the program into themachine for production use.R1-4.2 Normal Sequence of OperationsR1-4.2.1 Formatted process programs may begenerated at a host or machine. The actions taken togenerate one in a machine are left to the equipmentmanufacturer. If the process program is created at ahost, a sequence of operations is assumed.R1-4.2.1.1 Once the hosts process program generatorhas been invoked and has been told for which machinea process program is to be created, the host editor mustobtain a copy of the process capabilities data for thatmachine. The information may already be available onthe host or it may be obtained directly from themachine. In either case, the information originates atthe equipment and is obtained using S7,F21-22. (SeeSection R1-4.4 for additional information.)R1-4.2.1.2 With the machines process capabilities inits possession, the process program editor may proceedwith creating the desired process program. At theconclusion of the editing session, the new machineprocess program will either be saved at the host or sentdirectly to the machine for storage and/or use.At thispoint, the process program is known to satisfy a numberof constraints, but it is not necessarily completelyacceptable to the machine due to interrelationships ofthe process program data which are too complex to be described in the machine process capabilities data. Thehost at any time may verify that a process program istruly valid by sending the process program to themachine and asking it to check the process program andtell the host whether or not the process program is, infact, correct. If not correct, the equipment is expectedto provide information on what data in the processprogram is unacceptable. This action is accomplishedthrough S7,F31-32. This transaction is equivalent toS7,F23-24, with one important exception, the machineis not to do anything with the process program receivedunder S7,F31 except acknowledge that it got themessage (S7,F32) and, as soon as it is able, respondwith S7,F27, which provides the host with informationon the validity of the process program. In this way, anew version of a process program already held by amachine may be checked for validity without affectingthe operation of the machine (i.e., a newer version of aparticular process program may be checked while anolder version is simultaneously being used by theequipment for material processing).R1-4.2.1.3 At some point, a host resident processprogram will be required by the equipment for materialprocessing. Transfer of a program may beaccomplished in either of two ways. First, the host mayinitiate transfer by transmitting S7,F23. In this case,immediately upon reception of the message, theequipment is required to respond with S7,F24, whichtells the host that the process program arrived andwhether or not the process program is accepted forfurther processing by the equipment. The secondmeans is for the equipment to initiate the transfer byasking for a process program using S7,F25. In thiscase, the host will send the process program to theequipment or tell the equipment it is unable to satisfythe request. S7,F23 may also be used by a piece ofequipment to transfer a process program to its host forarchiving. In this case, the host will respond withS7,F24 and an appropriate completion code. Likewise,a host may request a process program transfer from itsmachine using S7,F25. The machine will respond withS7,F26, which will contain the process program or anerror indication.R1-4.2.1.4 Following reception by the equipment ofthe process program, it is the machines responsibilityto check the contents of the process program forvalidity and respond to the host with a S7,F27 messageformatted with the appropriate information about thejust received process program. To complete the processprogram exchange transaction, the host willacknowledge the S7,F27 message with S7,F28. What isdone with the process program once accepted andchecked for validity is dependent on the state of theprocess equipment.

&lt;!-- Page 21 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004263 R1-4.3 Equipment Process Capabilities DataR1-4.3.1 The underlying assumption of SECS-IIformatted process programs is that processinginstructions for equipment can be expressed assequences of commands with parameters. Commandsare integer codes which tell the machine what to do.The parameters of each command are numeric (integeror floating point) values, Boolean values, or text stringswhich specify how to carry out the particular command.This provides a very flexible structure for buildingprocess programs but does not provide the specificinformation (code values, types and number ofparameters, legal parameter values, etc.) required by ahost system to generate a process program for aparticular piece of equipment. Under SECS-II, thisinformation is provided to a host via the machinesEquipment Process Capabilities Data or PCD.R1-4.3.2 A PCD provides three levels of informationglobal data pertaining to the entire process program;definition of each possible command understood by themachine; and definition of each command parameter.Global process program definition data consist ofMDLN, SOFTREV, CMDMAX, BYTMAX, and thelist of command descriptors.R1-4.3.3 MDLN and SOFTREV provide the same datato the host as the equipments response to the S1,F1host interrogative, Are you there? They are includedin the PCD to provide a means of distinguishingbetween PCDs for different machines and revisions ofPCDs for the same piece of equipment. Also, when aprocess program is generated, the MDLN/SOFTREVvalues of the PCD are provided in the process programto allow the machine an unambiguous method ofdetermining if the process program was generated froma PCD it understands.R1-4.3.4 BYTMAX and CMDMAX are two integervalues which allow the equipment to limit the size ofthe process program which will be generated.BYTMAX specifies the maximum number of bytes aprocess program may occupy. CMDMAX specifies themaximum number of commands which may appear inthe process program. Either value may be zero, whichindicates that no maximum limit is being imposed bythe equipment.R1-4.3.5 The PCD command list identifies (in noparticular order) each of the unique operations itsassociated machine is capable of performing. Theseoperations may correspond to processing operations ofthe equipment (bake, spin), initialization of equipmentcomponents (set beamline controls), definition of datavalues referenced by later commands (define bondcoordinates or inspection points), or even pseudo-operations, which allow conditional execution of the process program (go to X; if temperature out of range,then go to y; repeat ramping until speed 200; etc.).R1-4.3.6 Each command in the PCDlist has a numberof data values associated with it which provide the hostwith the commands personality. These are CCODE,CNAME, RQCMD, BLKDEF, BCDS, IBCDS,NBCDS, ACDS, IACDS, NACDS, and the commandsparameter list.R1-4.3.7 CCODE defines the unique numeric codewhich the equipment recognizes as representing thecommand being defined. CNAME is a text stringwhich hopefully describes the function of thecommand. The string must be unique for eachcommand since humans generating process programs atthe host will use them, and the host process programgenerator will translate the CNAME to thecorresponding CCODE.R1-4.3.8 RQCMD. This Boolean value allowsequipment to specify whether or not a command mustappear at least once within their process program. Iftrue, the command must be used. If RQCMD is setfalse, the command may or may not be used in theprocess program at the discretion of the person creatingthe process program.R1-4.3.9 In addition to the information the PCDprovides on allowed data content within a processprogram, it also can provide information to the host onpossible interdependencies between the commands.Specifically, through the PCD the host can know suchthings as: command code A must appear beforecommand code B; command code A must come aftercommand code D; command code A must immediatelyprecede command code X; command code A must notcome before command code E; command code A mustnot come after command code F; and/or command codeA must immediately come after command code T.Each of the PCD entries, BCDS (before codes), ACDS(after codes), IBCDS (immediately before codes),IACDS (immediately after codes), NBCDS (not beforecodes), and NACDS (not after codes), is a SECS itemwhich may contain one or more command codes. Eachparticular item defines the relation to be satisfied. Theelements of the item identify the command codes whichare to satisfy the relation with the command beingdefined. A zero length item indicates that norestrictions apply for that type of checking. Forexample, if the values of the various fields take on thevalues shown in Figure R1-1, the host process programeditor will assure that the TEST command (code 10)will occur before commands with codes 5, 6, and 8; thatit will come after commands with codes 100 and 2; thatTEST will not appear after the command with code 20;and that each occurrence of command code 3 will have

&lt;!-- Page 22 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 264 a TEST command immediately before it, subject to theblock checking limitations described elsewhere. CNAME = TESTCCODE = 10BCDS = 5,6,8IBCDS = 3NBCDS = noneACDS = 100.2IACDS = noneNACDS = 20 Figure R1-1 R1-4.3.10 Associated with before/after checking is theconcept of a block which allows setting of limits onbefore/after checking. A block consists of a start blockcommand, a block terminator command and possiblybody commands, commands which are includedbetween the start and terminator commands. There areno specific command codes for start, or terminatorcommands in SECS-II formatted process programs.Instead, being a start block, terminator block, or bodycommand is merely an attribute of each commanddefined in the PCD. The field BLKDEF defines thisattribute for each command. A positive one indicatesthe command starts a new block. Zero indicates thatthe command is a body command and neither starts norterminates a block. A value of negative one indicatesthat the command is a terminator command.R1-4.3.11 Before/after checking for a particularcommand is performed only with other commandswithin the same block. To be within the same block, acommand must have the same nesting level as thecommand of interest or the command must be acontained block.R1-4.3.11.1 The example data in Figure R1-2 showssix grouping of commands for before/after checking:(A,B',N), (B,C,D',G',M), (D,E,F), (G,H',L), (H,I',K),(I,J). A letter followed by an apostrophe (') indicates ablock which has been collapsed to a command and hasthe before/after attributes of its start block command.Note that body and terminator commands occur in onlyone grouping, while block start commands occur intwo. Also, note that the outermost block is assumed tobegin with the first command of the process programand to end with the last command. Figure R1-2 R1-4.3.12 Each commands parameter list defines theparameters required by the equipment to carry out eachparticular command. The order in which eachparameter descriptor appears in the PCD parameter listalso defines the order in which parameters will appearin a process program command parameter list. Eachparameter is one of three possible types: numeric, text,or Boolean.R1-4.3.13 Regardless of parameter type, the first fourelements of any parameter descriptor list are the same.The first field, PNAME, specifies the text string whichnames the parameter. This data will be displayed by ahost when prompting a human for the parameter data.The second field, RQPAR, specifies if the value mustbe specified at the time the process program isgenerated (true) or if specifying the data is optional(false). The third field, PDFLT, identifies the type ofdata to be accepted for this parameter as well asproviding default values to include in the processprogram if the RQPAR is false and no data is input forthe parameter when the process program is generated.PDFLT will have zero length if no default value isprovided.R1-4.3.14 The final field, PMAX, specifies themaximum length of the parameter data placed in aprocess program. For numeric and Boolean data, itspecifies the maximum number of data entries in theSECS-II item. For a string parameter, it specifies themaximum number of characters acceptable to themachine. In either case, negative values are invalid anda value of zero indicates there is no length restriction.R1-4.3.15 For numeric and Boolean parameters whichare multi-valued items, usage of PDFLT becomes a bitmore complex. In these cases, PDFLT may also be a

&lt;!-- Page 23 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004265 vector of values. When default values are to beincluded in a process program, the entry of the defaultvector in the same ordinal position as the parameterentry requiring the default is used. If the parameter isallowed to have N entries but only M defaults areprovided, the last N-M parameter entries will have nodefaults.R1-4.3.16 If the numeric or Boolean vector parameteris required to be entered, PDFLT will contain no defaultdata values, but dummy values must be provided so thatthe length of the item specifies the minimum number ofentries the equipment expects to receive for theparameter. If this minimum number of entries exceedsthe maximum number of entries allowed for theparameter (PMAX), then only PMAX entries will beprovided in the process program.R1-4.3.17 Numeric parameters may be any of theSECS recognized floating point or integer data types.PDFLT identifies the particular type. ULIM and LLIMwill be of the same data type and specify the range oflegal values for the parameter (LLIM ≤ x ≤ ULIM).UNITS is a character string formed according to E5,Section 12, which specifies the expected units ofmeasure of the numeric value. RESC specifies whetherthe resolution of the data item to be entered is to be interms of a fundamental increment or significant digits.In the case of the former, RESV will be of the sametype as the expected parameter and will specify the baseincrement. In the case of the latter, RESV will be aninteger and will specify the number of significant digitsto accept for the parameter.R1-4.3.18 In addition to the standard fields describedabove, string parameter descriptors have one uniquefield. This field provides a set of template strings. Atext parameter will be assumed valid by a host processprogram generator if it matches one of the templatestrings. A match occurs if the input string is at least aslong as the corresponding template and each position ofthe template and data strings match. A null stringspecified as a template will result in a match with anydata string. A null data string will match only a nulltemplate string. A null template list indicates all stringsare acceptable to the equipment.R1-4.4 Equipment Capabilities Descriptor AvailabilityR1-4.4.1 Ideally, each piece of equipment should beable to respond to a host PCD request at any time.However, inasmuch as an equipments PCD may berather large and the equipment may have limitedstorage capacity, constant availability may beimpossible. In these cases, some compromise will haveto be made such as making it available only at machineinitialization or when idle. In extremely severe cases,an equipment manufacturer may have to provide the PCD data with the rest of the machine documentation,requiring his customer to manually enter the data intohis host system.R1-4.4.2 In light of this difficulty, host systems shouldmaintain copies of PCDs for each piece of equipmentunder its control and not expect to be able to obtain thePCD from the machine whenever it is required. Doingso, in fact, will permit more flexible process programdevelopment in the host, allowing creation of processprograms even when equipment is not online andencourage the use of formatted process programs byequipment manufacturers. R1-5 Suggested Baseline SECS EquipmentImplementationR1-5.1 Purpose and ScopeR1-5.1.1 This document provides a recommendationprepared by the Rigid Disk Subcommittee forgenerating a baseline implementation of the SECS(SEMI Equipment Communication Standard) standardson production process and test equipment. Thisdocument is not a tutorial to aid in understanding SECSbut rather serves as an introduction to the requirementsof SECS, and a brief guide to the selection of SECSmessages for equipment. Actual system requirementsof many implementations are beyond the scope of thisdocument. The full standards, SEMI EquipmentCommunications Standard I (SECS-I), SEMI E4 andSEMI Equipment Communications Standard II (SECS-II), SEMI E5 should be consulted by all users.R1-5.2 IntroductionR1-5.2.1 The SECS standards are an existing anddeveloped set of communication standards currentlyused by the semiconductor and other industries tosupport automated production. The standards provide ameans for communicating information and controlbetween production equipment and a host computer.This transfer of information and control can be used toprovide production tracking and location of WIP(Work-In-Process), scheduling of WIP and control ofmaterial transfer at the equipment. The processmeasurements and records can be used to provideprocess engineers with a database for statistical processcontrol. SECS messages are appropriate to a widevariety of applications, including measurement,processing, and material transport equipment.R1-5.3 SECS-I StandardR1-5.3.1 SECS-I defines the lower protocol layers of apoint-to-point interface between equipment and a hostcomputer system. The standard requires a simple, wellunderstood physical interface, RS-232. The SECS-Iprotocol allows the equipment control over the

&lt;!-- Page 24 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 266 protocol: the equipment is the master of the link andcan initiate the transfer of a message to the host.Likewise, the equipment can regulate the receipt of amessage by its response to a handshake to receive themessage. Thus, the interface takes place at theconvenience of the equipment, and equipment with verylimited computer resources can still support thestandard.R1-5.4 SECS-II StandardR1-5.4.1 SECS-II defines the higher layer in theprotocol, including message content, structure, and datatypes and their formats. SECS-II defines messages insets with related functions called Streams. The actualcontent of the messages are specific to an application,but it is possible for a properly designed host softwaresystem to unpack a message and present the data in ameaningful way with no prior definition as to thecontent. Equipment need only implement thosemessages appropriate to meet its system requirements;thus, very simple equipment will requireimplementation of few messages.R1-5.4.2 Application Note A2 contains somesuggestions for message utilization, including someinformation on minimum message sets. It is the intentof this report to expand in a somewhat differentdirection, to identify those messages which typicallyconstitute a sufficient set given a selected equipmentfunction.R1-5.4.3 To select a message set, the requirements forthe equipment must be identified. This requirement, inturn, determines a message set. Identified below are anumber of types of equipment requirements and abaseline set of messages supporting those requirements.The message sets identified are baselinerecommendations. Actual equipment implementationsmay need more messages than those specified here tosatisfy all system requirements. The publishedstandards should be consulted for all applications.Issues such as handling of multi-block messages,optional replies, and others are described in detail in theSEMI specifications and are not a topic of this baselinerecommendation.R1-5.4.4 The implementation for a specific equipmenttype begins by specifying which tasks that equipment isrequired to perform from the following list, and thenstudying the expanded descriptions for those taskschosen in the SECS-II implementation section.Typical Tasks for Measurement and Process:1. Measurement or Action Reports2. Equipment Alarm Reports3. Remote Request for Equipment Condition or State 4. Operator Interface to the Host5. Remote Access to Process Programs6. Remote CommandsTypical Tasks for Material Control and Transport:1. Material Status Information2. Material Transport ControlAdditional Tasks for Special Situations:1. File TransferR1-5.5 Baseline SECS Implementation Recommenda-tions: SECS-IR1-5.5.1 The baseline SECS-I requirement forequipment is to fully implement the SECS-I protocol asdefined in SEMI E4. This requirement applies to allSECS compatible equipment independent of theequipments function. The flow chart (Figure 2 ofSEMI E4) illustrates the block transfer protocol ofSECS-I. The body of the SECS-I standard describesprotocol timeouts and other requirements that areessential components of the specification.R1-5.6 Baseline SECS Implementation Recommenda-tions: SECS-IIR1-5.6.1 The SECS-II implementation begins with achoice or selection of messages for the equipment. Inorder for equipment to meet the baseline requirementsfor a viable SECS-II interface, the equipment must becapable of generating a certain set of messages andrecognizing another set. The messages required foreither set will depend on tasks of equipment and onsystem requirements for production and process controlby the host. Equipment must accept S1,F1 and sendS1,F2. Note that implementation in the reversedirection is optional. In order to ensure a viable datacommunication link, certain messages are required:Messages for All Equipment  Required by SECS-IIa. Messages Generated by the EquipmentS1,F2:On Line DataS9,F1: Unrecognized Device IDS9,F3: Unrecognized Stream TypeS9,F5: Unrecognized Function TypeS9,F7: Illegal Datab. Messages Recognized by the EquipmentS1,F1: Are You There RequestR1-5.6.2 In addition to those messages which arerequired, the following are strongly recommended.These messages are used for diagnostic purposes:

&lt;!-- Page 25 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004267 Messages for All Equipment  Strongly Recom-mendedA. Messages Generated by the Equipment1. S2,F25: String Diagnostic RequestB. Messages Recognized by the Equipment1. S2,F26: String Diagnostic DataR1-5.6.3 Note that messages are identified by astream number and a function number. All primarymessages have an odd-numbered function, and thecorresponding reply is the next consecutive even-numbered function. Thus, many messages are paired.For example, the Stream 1, Function 1 (S1,F1) messagegenerated by either host of equipment has the reply ofStream 1, Function 2 (S1,F2).R1-5.6.4 Reports of Measurements or Process Actions The simplest task for measurement and processequipment is to report their measurements or actions tothe host. This report could also include equipmentsetup parameters and sample identification. The abilityto accurately transfer this data from equipment to afactory host is of prime importance in automatingproduction. Depending on the equipment requirements,the function can be far greater.R1-5.6.4.1 Measurements or Action Reports  Givenan equipment requirement to relay data to a hostcomputer, the equipment must handle one or both of thefollowing messages as defined by SEMI E5.S6,F3: Discrete Variable SendS6,F9: Formatted Variable SendR1-5.6.4.2 Equipment Alarm Reports  Thesemessages are unsolicited by the host, they transmitinformation warning of conditions threatening personalsafety, equipment safety, or out of limit equipmentparameters which may cause harm to the product orindicate equipment malfunction:S5,F1: Alarm Report SendR1-5.6.4.3 Remote Request for Equipment Conditionor State  This is the method where the host requestsdata from the equipment.Messages Transmitted to the Equipment:S6,F7: Data Transfer RequestMessages Transmitted by the Equipment in Reply:S6,F8: Data Transfer DataR1-5.6.4.4 Operator Interface to the Host  Manyequipment systems will have an interactive operatorsconsole; some will have computer terminals used forthis purpose. SECS-II has a message type to transfer text from host to the equipment console. There are alsomessages through which equipment operators maytransmit text from their console, directly to the host.This text may include desired information which is notaccessible by the equipment computer directly.Message Transmitted by the Equipment:S10,F1: Terminal RequestMessage Recognized by the Equipment:S10,F3: Terminal Display, SingleR1-5.6.4.5 Remote Access to Process Programs SECS-II defines a means for storing or retrievingequipment process programs. This function allowsupload and download of such programs through theSECS interface. By this means, programs forequipment may be archived in the host computersystem. Either the host or the equipment may requestthe transfer of a Process Program from the other. To dothis:The Requestor transmits:S7,F5: Process Program RequestThe Sender of the Process Program replies:S7,F6: Process Program DataIn addition, either host or equipment may initiatesending the Process Program. In this case:The sender transmits:S7,F1: Process Program Load Inquire,Receiver replies with:S7,F2: Process Program Load Grant,Sender transmits:S7,F3: Process Program Send,The receiver answers:S7,F4: Process Program Acknowledge.R1-5.6.4.6 Remote Commands  The host can initiatea command to the equipment in a manner similar to anoperator pressing a button.The host transmits:S2,F21: Remote Command Send,The equipment replies:S2,F22: Remote Command Acknowledge.R1-5.6.4.6.1 Execution of the remote command maycause the equipment to transmit a message to the host ata time greater than the reply time required for theS2,F22 message. If this type of reply is desired, the

&lt;!-- Page 26 --&gt;

SEMI E5-1104 © SEMI 1982, 2004 268 S6,F3: Discrete Variable Data Send may be used totransfer data to the host.R1-5.6.5 Typical Tasks for Material Control andTransportR1-5.6.5.1 Material Status Information  The hostmay query the equipment for material-in-processinformation. The information is transmitted only as aanswer to a host request.The equipment recognizes:S3,F1: Material Status Request.The equipment transmits:S3,F2: Material Status Data.R1-5.6.5.2 Material Transport Control  The SECS-II protocol includes the means to affect automatedtransfer of material from one SECS-compatible deviceto another. Baseline compatibility requires theequipment to perform a simple material transferprocess, an actual implementation may require meansfor graceful error recovery as well. Thisrecommendation does not include messages to handleerror conditions.Receiving Material:Equipment Recognizes S4,F1:Ready to Send MaterialEquipment Transmits:S4,F3: Send Material,S4,F5: HandshakeSending Material:Equipment Transmits:S4,F1: Ready to Send MaterialEquipment Recognizes:S4,F3: Send Material,S4,F5: Handshake CompleteEquipment Recognizes:S4,F2: RTS AcknowledgeR1-5.7 Conclusion  The baseline requirements forequipment using the SECS standards includes all ofSECS-I and a limited selection of messages fromSECS-II. The choice of SECS-II messages, and datacontained therein, is dictated by the equipment andsystem requirements. The benefits in using thestandards are many, including support for growth inequipment function, and standardization needed for effective automation. The results include automatedprocess monitoring and all of the associated benefits. NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties orrepresentations as to the suitability of the standard setforth herein for any particular application. Thedetermination of the suitability of the standard is solelythe responsibility of the user. Users are cautioned torefer to manufacturers instructions, product labels,product data sheets, and other relevant literaturerespecting any materials mentioned herein. Thesestandards are subject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility thatcompliance with this standard may require use ofcopyrighted material or of an invention covered bypatent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMItakes no position respecting the validity of any patentrights or copyrights asserted in connection with anyitem mentioned in this standard. Users of this standardare expressly advised that determination of any suchpatent rights or copyrights, and the risk of infringementof such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 27 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 20031 SEMI E30-1103GENERIC MODEL FOR COMMUNICATIONS AND CONTROL OFMANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT (GEM) This standard was technically approved by the Global Information & Control Committee and is the directresponsibility of the Japanese Information & Control Committee. Current edition approved by the JapaneseRegional Standards Committee on August 8, 2003. Initially available at www.semi.org October 2003; to bepublished November 2003. Originally published in 1992; previously published July 2003. CONTENTS 1 Introduction1.1 Revision History1.2 Scope1.3 IntentFigure 1.1, GEM Scope1.4 OverviewFigure 1.2, GEM Components1.5 Applicable Documents2 Definitions3 State Models3.1 State Model Methodology3.2 Communications State ModelFigure 3.0, Example Equipment Component OverviewFigure 3.2.1, Communications State DiagramTable 3.2, Communications State Transition Table3.3 Control State ModelFigure 3.3, Control State ModelTable 3.3, CONTROL State Transition Table3.4 Equipment Processing StatesFigure 3.4, Processing State DiagramTable 3.4, Processing State Transition Table4 Equipment Capabilities and Scenarios4.1 Establish Communications4.2 Data CollectionFigure 4.2.1, Limit Combination Illustration: ControlApplicationFigure 4.2.2, Elements of One LimitFigure 4.2.3, Limit State ModelTable 4.2, Limit State Transition Table 4.3 Alarm ManagementFigure 4.3, State Diagram for Alarm ALIDnTable 4.3.1, Alarm State Transition TableTable 4.3.24.4 Remote Control4.5 Equipment Constants4.6 Process Program Management4.7 Material Movement4.8 Equipment Terminal Services4.9 Error Messages4.10 Clock4.11 SpoolingFigure 4.11, Spooling State DiagramTable 4.11, Spooling State Transition4.12 Control5 Data Items5.1 Data Item Restrictions5.2 Variable Item List6 Collection EventsTable 6.1, GEM Defined Collection Events7 SECS-II Message SubsetSTREAM 1: Equipment StatusSTREAM 2: Equipment Control and DiagnosticsSTREAM 5: Exception (Alarm) ReportingSTREAM 6: Data CollectionSTREAM 7: Process Program LoadSTREAM 9: System ErrorsSTREAM 10: Terminal ServicesSTREAM 14: Object ServicesSTREAM 15: Recipe Management

&lt;!-- Page 28 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 2 8 GEM Compliance8.1 Fundamental GEM RequirementsFigure 8.1, GEM Requirements and CapabilitiesTable 8.1, Fundamental GEM Requirements8.2 GEM CapabilitiesTable 8.2, Section References for GEM Capabilities8.3 Definition of GEM Compliance8.4 DocumentationFigure 8.2, Host View of GEMTable 8.3, GEM Compliance StatementTable 8.4, SML NotationA. Application NotesA.1 Factory Operational ScriptA.1.1 Anytime CapabilitiesA.1.2 System Initialization and SynchronizationA.1.3 Production Set-UpA.1.4 ProcessingA.1.5 Post-ProcessingA.2 Equipment Front PanelA.2.1 Displays and IndicatorsA.2.2 Switches/ButtonsA.3 Examples of Equipment AlarmsTable A.3, Alarm Examples Per Equipment Configura-tionA.4 Trace Data Collection ExampleA.5 Harel NotationFigure A.5.1, Harel Statechart SymbolsFigure A.5.2, Example of OR SubstatesFigure A.5.3, Example of AND SubstatesA.5.1 State DefinitionsA.5.2 Transition TableTable A.5, Transition Table for Motor ExampleA.6 Example Control Model ApplicationA.7 Examples of Limits MonitoringA.7.1 IntroductionA.7.2 ExamplesFigure A.7.1, Valve Monitoring Example Figure A.7.2, Environment Monitoring ExampleFigure A.7.3, Calibration Counter ExampleA.8 Recipe Parameter Modification for Process andEquipment ControlA.8.1 IntroductionA.8.2 Equipment ConstantsA.8.3 ExampleFigure A.8.1, CMP Single Wafer Polishing Systemwith Host Recipe Parameter Modification CapabilityIndex

&lt;!-- Page 29 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 20033 SEMI E30-1103GENERIC MODEL FOR COMMUNICATIONS AND CONTROL OFMANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT (GEM) This standard was technically approved by the Global Information & Control Committee and is the directresponsibility of the Japanese Information & Control Committee. Current edition approved by the JapaneseRegional Standards Committee on August 8, 2003. Initially available at www.semi.org October 2003; to bepublished November 2003. Originally published in 1992; previously published July 2003. 1 Introduction1.1 Revision History  This is the first release of theGEM standard.1.2 Scope  The scope of the GEM standard is limitedto defining the behavior of semiconductor equipment asviewed through a communications link. The SEMI E5(SECS-II) standard provides the definition of messagesand related data items exchanged between host andequipment. The GEM standard defines which SECS-IImessages should be used, in what situations, and whatthe resulting activity should be. Figure 1.1 illustratesthe relationship of GEM, SECS-II and othercommunications alternatives.The GEM standard does NOT attempt to define thebehavior of the host computer in the communicationslink. The host computer may initiate any GEM messagescenario at any time and the equipment shall respond asdescribed in the GEM standard. When a GEM messagescenario is initiated by either the host or equipment, theequipment shall behave in the manner described in theGEM standard when the host uses the appropriate GEMmessages. Figure 1.1GEM ScopeThe capabilities described in this standard arespecifically designed to be independent of lower-levelcommunications protocols and connection schemes (e.g., SECS-I, SMS, point-to-point, connection-orientedor connectionless). Use of those types of standards isnot required or precluded by this standard.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to addresssafety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establishappropriate safety and health practices and determinethe applicability of regulatory or other limitations priorto use. 1.3 Intent  GEM defines a standard implementationof SECS-II for all semiconductor manufacturingequipment. The GEM standard defines a common set ofequipment behavior and communications capabilitiesthat provide the functionality and flexibility to supportthe manufacturing automation programs ofsemiconductor device manufacturers. Equipmentsuppliers may provide additional SECS-II functionalitynot included in GEM as long as the additionalfunctionality does not conflict with any of the behavioror capabilities defined in GEM. Such additions mayinclude SECS-II messages, collection events, alarms,remote command codes, processing states, variable dataitems (data values, status values or equipmentconstants), or other functionality that is unique to aclass (etchers, steppers, etc.) or specific instance ofequipment.GEM is intended to produce economic benefits for bothdevice manufacturers and equipment suppliers.Equipment suppliers benefit from the ability to developand market a single SECS-II interface that satisfiesmost customers. Device manufacturers benefit from theincreased functionality and standardization of theSECS-II interface across all manufacturing equipment.This standardization reduces the cost of softwaredevelopment for both equipment suppliers and devicemanufacturers. By reducing costs and increasingfunctionality, device manufacturers can automatesemiconductor factories more quickly and effectively.The flexibility provided by the GEM standard alsoenables device manufacturers to implement uniqueautomation solutions within a common industryframework.

&lt;!-- Page 30 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 4 The GEM standard is intended to specify the following: A model of the behavior to be exhibited bysemiconductor manufacturing equipment in aSECS-II communication environment, A description of information and control functionsneeded in a semiconductor manufacturingenvironment, A definition of the basic SECS-II communicationscapabilities of semiconductor manufacturingequipment, A single consistent means of accomplishing anaction when SECS-II provides multiple possiblemethods, and Standard message dialogues necessary to achieveuseful communications capabilities.The GEM standard contains two types of requirements: fundamental GEM requirements and requirements of additional GEM capabilities.The fundamental GEM requirements form thefoundation of the GEM standard. The additional GEMcapabilities provide functionality required for sometypes of factory automation or functionality applicableto specific types of equipment. A detailed list of thefundamental GEM requirements and additional GEMcapabilities can be found in Chapter 8, GEMCompliance. Figure 1.2 illustrates the components ofthe GEM standard. Figure 1.2GEM Components Equipment suppliers should work with their customersto determine which additional GEM capabilities shouldbe implemented for a specific type of equipment.Because the capabilities defined in the GEM standardwere specifically developed to meet the factoryautomation requirements of semiconductormanufacturers, it is anticipated that most devicemanufacturers will require most of the GEMcapabilities that apply to a particular type of equipment.Some device manufacturers may not require all theGEM capabilities due to differences in their factoryautomation strategies. 1.4 Overview  The GEM standard is divided intosections as described below.Section 1  IntroductionThis section provides the revision history, scope andintent of the GEM standard. It also provides anoverview of the structure of the document and a list ofrelated documents.Section 2  DefinitionsThis section provides definitions of terms usedthroughout the document.Section 3  State ModelsThis section describes the conventions used throughoutthis document to depict state models. It also describesthe basic state models that apply to all semiconductormanufacturing equipment and that pertain to more thana single capability. State models describe the behaviorof the equipment from a host perspective.Section 4  Capabilities and ScenariosThis section provides a detailed description of thecommunications capabilities defined for semiconductormanufacturing equipment. The description of eachcapability includes the purpose, definitions,requirements, and scenarios that shall be supported.Section 5  Data DefinitionsThis section provides a reference to the Data ItemDictionary and Variable Item Dictionary found inSEMI Standard E5. The first subsection shows thosedata items from SECS-II which have been restricted intheir use (i.e., allowed formats). The second subsectionlists variable data items that are available to the host fordata collection and shows any restrictions on theirSECS-II definitions.Section 6  Collection EventsThis section provides a list of required collection eventsand their associated data.

&lt;!-- Page 31 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 20035 Section 7  SECS Message SubsetThis section provides a composite list of the SECS-IImessages required to implement all capabilities definedin the GEM standard.Section 8  GEM ComplianceThis section describes the fundamental GEMrequirements and additional GEM capabilities andprovides references to other sections of the standardwhere detailed requirements are located. This sectionalso defines standard terminology and documentationthat can be used by equipment suppliers and devicemanufacturers to describe compliance with thisstandard.Section A  Application NotesThese sections provide additional explanatoryinformation and examples.Section A.1  Factory Operational ScriptThis section provides an overview of how the requiredSECS capabilities may be used in the context of atypical factory operation sequence. This section isorganized according to the sequence in which actionsare typically performed.Section A.2  Equipment Front PanelThis section provides guidance in implementing therequired front panel buttons, indicators, and switches asdefined in this document. A summary of the front panelrequirements is provided.Section A.3  Examples of Equipment AlarmsThis section provides examples of alarms related tovarious equipment configurations.Section A.4  Trace Data Collection ExampleThis section provides an example of trace initializationby the host and the periodic trace data messages thatmight be sent by the equipment.Section A.5  Harel NotationThis section explains David Harels Statechartnotation that is used throughout this document to depictstate models.Section A.6  Example Control Model ApplicationThis section provides one example of a hostsinteraction with an equipments control model.Section A.7  Examples of Limits MonitoringThis section contains four limits monitoring examplesto help clarify the use of limits and to illustrate typicalapplications. 1.5 Applicable Documents1.5.1 SEMI Standards  The following SEMIstandards are related to the GEM standard. The specificportions of these standards referenced by GEMconstitute provisions of the GEM standard.SEMI E4  SEMI Equipment CommunicationsStandard 1  Message Transfer (SECS-I)SEMI E5  SEMI Equipment CommunicationsStandard 2  Message Content (SECS-II)SEMI E13  Standard for SEMI EquipmentCommunication Standard Message Service (SMS)SEMI E23  Specification for Cassette TransferParallel I/O Interface 1.5.2 Other ReferencesHarel, D., Statecharts: A Visual Formalism forComplex Systems, Science of Computer Programming8 (1987) 231-274 1.NOTICE: As listed or revised, all documents citedshall be the latest publications of adopted standards.2 Definitions2.1 alarm  An alarm is related to any abnormalsituation on the equipment that may endanger people,equipment, or material being processed. Such abnormalsituations are defined by the equipment manufacturerbased on physical safety limitations. Equipmentactivities potentially impacted by the presence of analarm shall be inhibited.2.1.1 Note that exceeding control limits associatedwith process tolerance does not constitute an alarm nordo normal equipment events such as the start orcompletion of processing.2.2 capabilities  Capabilities are operationsperformed by semiconductor manufacturing equipment.These operations are initiated through thecommunications interface using sequences of SECS-IImessages (or scenarios). An example of a capability isthe setting and clearing of alarms.2.3 collection event  A collection event is an event(or grouping of related events) on the equipment that isconsidered to be significant to the host.2.4 communication failure  A communication failureis said to occur when an established communicationslink is broken. Such failures are protocol specific. Referto the appropriate protocol standard (e.g., SEMI E4 or 1 Elsevier Science, P.O. Box 945, New York, NY 10159-0945,http://www.elvesier.nl/homepage/browse.htt

&lt;!-- Page 32 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 6 SEMI E37) for a protocol-specific definition ofcommunication failure.2.5 communication fault  A communication faultoccurs when the equipment does not receive anexpected message, or when either a transaction timer ora conversation timer expires.2.6 control  To control is to exercise directinginfluence.2.7 equipment model  An equipment model is adefinition based on capabilities, scenarios, and SECS-IImessages that manufacturing equipment should performto support an automated manufacturing environment.(See also Generic Equipment Model.)2.8 event  An event is a detectable occurrencesignificant to the equipment.2.9 GEM compliance  The term GEM Complianceis defined with respect to individual GEM capabilitiesto indicate adherence to the GEM standard for aspecific capability. Section 8 includes more detail onGEM Compliance.2.10 Generic Equipment Model  The GenericEquipment Model is used as a reference model for anytype of equipment. It contains functionality that canapply to most equipment, but does not address uniquerequirements of specific equipment.2.11 host  The SEMI E4 and E5 standards defineHost as the intelligent system that communicates withthe equipment.2.12 message fault  A message fault occurs when theequipment receives a message that it cannot processbecause of a defect in the message.2.13 operational script  An operational script is acollection of scenarios arranged in a sequence typical ofactual factory operations. Example sequences aresystem initialization powerup, machine setup, andprocessing.2.14 operator  A human who operates the equipmentto perform its intended function (e.g., processing). Theoperator typically interacts with the equipment via theequipment supplied operator console.2.15 process unit  A process unit refers to thematerial that is typically processed as a unit via singlerun command, process program, etc. Common processunits are wafers, cassettes, magazines, and boats.2.16 processing cycle  A processing cycle is asequence wherein all of the material contained in atypical process unit is processed. This is often used as ameasure of action or time. 2.17 scenario  A scenario is a group of SECS-IImessages arranged in a sequence to perform acapability. Other information may also be included in ascenario for clarity.2.18 SECS-I  SEMI Equipment CommunicationsStandard 1 (SEMI E4). This standard specifies amethod for a message transfer protocol with electricalsignal levels based upon EIA RS232-C.2.19 SECS-II  SEMI Equipment CommunicationsStandard 2 (SEMI E5). This standard specifies a groupof messages and the respective syntax and semanticsfor those messages relating to semiconductormanufacturing equipment control.2.20 SMS  SECS Message Service. An alternative toSECS-I to be used when sending SECS-II formattedmessages over a network.2.21 state model  A State Model is a collection ofstates and state transitions that combine to describe thebehavior of a system. This model includes definition ofthe conditions that delineate a state, theactions/reactions possible within a state, the events thattrigger transitions to other states, and the process oftransitioning between states.2.22 system default  Refers to state(s) in theequipment behavioral model that are expected to beactive at the end of system initialization. It also refers tothe value(s) that specified equipment variables areexpected to contain at the end of system initialization.2.23 system initialization  The process that anequipment performs at power-up, system activation,and/or system reset. This process is expected to preparethe equipment to operate properly and according to theequipment behavioral models.2.24 user  A human or humans who represent thefactory and enforce the factory operation model. A useris considered to be responsible for many setup andconfiguration activities that cause the equipment to bestconform to factory operations practices. 3 State ModelsThe following sections contain state models forsemiconductor manufacturing equipment. These statemodels describe the behavior of the equipment from ahost perspective in a compact and easy to understandformat. State models for different equipment will beidentical in some areas (e.g., communications), but mayvary in other areas (e.g., processing). It is desirable todivide the equipment into parallel components that canbe modeled separately and then combined. An exampleof a component overview of an equipment is providedas Figure 3.0.

&lt;!-- Page 33 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 20037 Equipment manufacturers must document theoperation-al behavior of their equipment using statemodel meth-odology. State models are discussed inSections 3.1 and A.5 and in a referenced article.Documentation of a state model shall include thefollowing three elements: A state diagram showing the possible states of thesystem or components of a system and all of thepossible transitions from one state to another. Thestates and transitions must each be labeled. Use ofthe Harel notation (see A.5) is recommended. A transition table listing each transition, thebeginning and end states, what stimulus triggersthe transition, and any actions taken as a result ofthe transition. A definition of each state specifying systembehavior when that state is active.Examples of the above elements are provided inSection A.5. Figure 3.0Example Equipment Component Overview The benefits of providing state models are:1. State machine models are a useful specificationtool,2. A host system can anticipate machine behaviorbased upon the state model,3. End-users and equipment programmers have acommon description of machine behavior fromwhich to work,4. Legal operations can be defined pertaining toany machine state, 5. External event notifications can be related tointernal state transitions,6. External commands can be related to statetransitions,7. State model components describing differentaspects of machine control can be related to oneanother (example: processing state model withmaterial transport state model; processing statemodel with internal machine safety systems). 3.1 State Model Methodology  To document theexpected functionality of the various capabilitiesdescribed in this document, the Statechart notationdeveloped by David Harel has been adopted. An articleby Harel is listed in Section 1.5 and should beconsidered must reading for a full understanding ofthe notation. The convention used in this and followingsections is to describe the dynamic functionality of acapability with three items: a textual description of eachstate or substate defined, a table that describes thepossible transitions from one state to another, and agraphical figure that uses the symbols defined by Harelto illustrate the relationships of the states andtransitions. The combination of these items define thestate model for a system or component. A summary ofthe Harel notation and a more detailed description ofthe text, table, and figure used to define behavior withthis methodology is contained in the Application NoteA.5.The basic unit of a state model is the state. A state is astatic set of conditions. If the conditions are met, thestate is current. These conditions might involve sensorreadings, switch positions, time of day, etc. Also part ofa state definition is a description of reactions to specificstimuli (e.g., if message Sx,Fy is received, generatereply message Sx,Fy + 1). Stimuli may be quite variedbut for semiconductor equipment would includereceived SECS messages, expired timers, operator inputat an equipment terminal, and changes in sensorreadings.To help clarify the interpretation of this document andthe state models described herein, it is useful to distin-guish between a state and an event and the relationshipof one to the other. An event is dynamic rather thanstatic. It represents a change in conditions, or morespecifically, the awareness of such a change. An eventmight involve a sensor reading exceeding a limit, aswitch changing position, or a time limit exceeded.A change to a new active state (state transition) mustalways be prompted by a change in conditions, and thusan event. In addition, a state transition may itself betermed an event. In fact, there are many events that mayoccur on an equipment, so it is important to classify

&lt;!-- Page 34 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 8 events based on whether they can be detected andwhether they are of interest. In this document, the termevent has been more narrowly defined as a detectableoccurrence that is significant to the equipment.A further narrowing of the definition of event is repre-sented by the term collection event, which is an event(or group of related events) on the equipment that isconsidered significant to the host. It is these events that(if enabled) are reported to the host. By this definition,the list of collection events for an equipment would typ-ically be only a subset of total events. The state modelsin this document are intended to be limited to the levelof detail in which the host is interested. Thus, all statetransitions defined in this standard, unless otherwisespecified, shall correspond to collection events. 3.2 Communications State Model  TheCommunications State Model defines the behavior ofthe equipment in relation to the existence or absence ofa communications link with the host. Section 4.1expands on this section by defining the EstablishCommunications capability. This model pertains to alogical connection between equipment and host ratherthan a physical connection.3.2.1 Terminology  The terms communication fail-ure, connection transaction failure, and communicationlink are defined for use within this document only andshould not be confused with the same or similar termsused elsewhere. See SEMI E4 (SECS-I) or SEMI E37 (HSMS) fora protocol specific definitions of communicationsfailure. A connection transaction failure occurs whenattempting to establish communications and iscaused by a communication failure, the failure to receive an S1,F14 reply within areply timeout limit, or receipt of S1,F14 that has been improperlyformatted or with COMMACK2 not set to 0. A reply timeout period begins after the successfultransmission of a complete primary message forwhich a reply is expected. (See SEMI E4 (SECS-I)or SEMI E37 (HSMS) for a protocol-specificdefinition of reply timeout.) 2 Establish Communications Acknowledge Code, defined in Section4.1. See the SEMI E5 Standard for further definition of this DataItem.  A communication link is established following thefirst successful completion of any one S1,F13/F14transaction with an acknowledgement of accept.The establishment of this link is logical rather thanphysical. Implementations may have mechanisms whichallow outgoing messages to be stored temporarilyprior to being sent. The noun queue is used tocover such stored messages. They are queued whenplaced within the queue and are dequeued byremoving them from this storage. Send includes queue to send or begin theprocess of attempting to send a message. It doesnot imply the successful completion of sending amessage. The host may attempt to establish communicationswith equipment at any time due to the initializationof the host or by independent detection of acommunications failure by the host. Thus, the hostmay initiate an S1,F13/F14 transaction at any time. 3.2.2 CommDelay Timer  The CommDelay timerrepresents an internal timer used to measure the intervalbetween attempts to send S1,F13. The length of thisinterval is equal to the value in the EstablishCommuni-cationsTimeout. The CommDelay timer is not directlyvisible to the host.EstablishCommunicationsTimeout is the user-configur-able equipment constant that defines the delay, inseconds, between attempts to send S1,F13. This valueis used to initialize the CommDelay timer.The CommDelay timer is initialized to begin timing.The CommDelay timer is initialized only when the stateWAIT DELAY is entered.The CommDelay timer is expired when it times out,and the time remaining in the interval between attemptsto send is zero. When the timer expires during the stateWAIT DELAY, it triggers a new attempt to sendS1,F13 and the transition to the state WAIT CRA3 . 3.2.3 Conventions The attempt to send S1,F13 is made only upontransit into the state WAIT CRA. The CommDelayTimer should be set to expired at this time. The CommDelay timer is initialized only upontransit into the state WAIT DELAY. A next 3 CRA is the mnemonic defined for Establish CommunicationsRequest Acknowledge (S1,F14).

&lt;!-- Page 35 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 20039 attempt to send S1,F13 shall occur only upon atransit to the state WAIT CRA. 3.2.4 Communication States  There are two majorstates of SECS communication, DISABLED andENABLED. The system default state must be user-configurable at the equipment (e.g., via a jumper settingor non-volatile memory variable).Once system initialization has been achieved, theopera-tor shall be able to change the communicationstate selection at any time via equipment terminalfunctions or momentary switch. A two-position typeswitch must not be used due to possible conflict withthe system default.The ENABLED state has two substates, NOT COM-MUNICATING and COMMUNICATING, describedbelow. The equipment must inform the operator of thecurrent communication state via continuous display atthe equipment, including the NOT COMMUNI-CATING and COMMUNICATING sub-states.In the event of a connection transaction failure, a user-configurable equipment constant EstablishCommunica-tionsTimeout is used to establish the interval betweenattempts to send an S1,F13 (Establish CommunicationsRequest) while in the NOT COMMUNICATING sub-state.Figure 3.2.1 shows the relationship between thesuperstates and substates of the Communications StateModel. A description of the events triggering statetransitions and the actions taken is given in Table 3.2. Figure 3.2.1Communications State Diagram The states of the Communications State Model aredefined as follows: DISABLEDIn this state SECS-II communication with a hostcomputer is non-existent. If the operator switchesfrom ENABLED to DISABLED, all SECS-IIcommunications must cease immediately. Anymessages queued to send shall be discarded, and allfurther action on any open transactions andconversations shall be terminated. 4 Handling ofmessages currently being transmitted is an issue forlower level message transfer protocols and is notaddressed in this standard.The DISABLED state is a possible system default.ENABLEDENABLED has two substates, COMMUNICA-TING and NOT COMMUNICATING. Whenevercommunications are enabled, either during systeminitialization or through operator selection, thesubstate of NOT COMMUNICATING is activeuntil communications are formally established.Lower-level protocols (such as SECS-I) areassumed to be functioning normally in that they arecapable of supporting the communication of SECS-II syntax.The ENABLED state is a possible system default.ENABLED/NOT COMMUNICATINGNo messages other than S1,F13, S1,F14, and S9,Fxshall be sent while this substate is active. Theequipment shall discard any messages receivedfrom the host other than S1,F13 or S1,F14(Establish Communications Acknowledge). It shallalso periodically attempt to establishcommunication with a host computer by issuing anS1,F13 until communications are successfullyestablished. However, only one equipment-initiatedS1,F13 transaction may be open at any time.The NOT COMMUNICATING state has two ANDsubstates, HOST-INITIATED CONNECT andEQUIPMENT-INITIATED CONNECT, both ofwhich are active whenever the equipment is NOTCOMMUNICATING. These two substates clarifythe behavior of the equipment in the event thatboth the equipment and the host attempt toestablish communications during the same periodof time5 . 4 Refer to SEMI E5, Section 5, for definitions of SECS-II transactionand conversation protocols.5 Note that in the Harel notation, an exit from any AND substate is anexit from the parent state and thus from all other AND substates ofthat parent substate.

&lt;!-- Page 36 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 10 NOT COMMUNICATING/EQUIPMENT-INITIATEDCONNECTThis state has two substates, WAIT CRA andWAIT DELAY. Upon any entry to the NOTCOMMUNICATING state, wheneverEQUIPMENT-INITIATED CONNECT firstbecomes active, a transition to WAIT CRA occurs,the CommDelay timer is set to expired, and animmediate attempt to send S1,F13 is made.NOT COMMUNICATING/EQUIPMENT-INITIATEDCONNECT/WAIT CRAAn Establish Communications Request has beensent. The equipment waits for the host toacknowledge the request.NOT COMMUNICATING/EQUIPMENT-INITIATEDCONNECT/WAIT DELAYA connection transaction failure has occurred. TheCommDelay timer has been initialized. Theequipment waits for the timer to expire.NOT COMMUNICATING/HOST-INITIATED CON-NECTThis state describes the behavior of the equipmentin response to a host-initiated S1,F13 while NOTCOMMUNICATING is active.NOT COMMUNICATING/HOST-INITIATED CON-NECT/WAIT CR FROM HOSTThe equipment waits for an S1,F13 from the host.If an S1,F13 is received, the equipment attempts tosend an S1,F14 with COMMACK = 0.ENABLED/COMMUNICATINGCommunications have been established. Theequipment may receive any message from the host,including S1,F13. When the equipment isCOMMUNICATING, SECS communications witha host computer must be maintained. This stateremains active until communications are disabledor a communication failure occurs. If theequipment receives S1,F13 from the host while inthe COMMUNICATING substate, it shouldrespond with S1,F14 with COMMACK set to zero.If the equipment receives S1,F14 from a previouslysent S1,F13, no action is required.In the event of communication failure, theequipment shall return to the NOTCOMMUNICATING substate and attempt to re-establish communications with the host.It is possible that the equipment may be waiting foran S1,F14 from the host in EQUIPMENT- INITIATED CONNECT/WAIT CRA at the timean S1,F13 is received from the host in HOST-INITIATED CONNECT/WAIT CR FROM HOST.When this situation occurs, both equipment andhost have an open S1,F13/S1,F14 transaction.Since communications are successfully establishedon the successful completion of any S1,F13/S1,F14transaction, either of these two transactions may bethe first to complete successfully and to cause thetransition from NOT COMMUNICATING state toCOMMUNICATING. In this event, the othertransaction shall remain open regardless of thetransition to COMMUNICATING until it is closedin a normal manner.If the equipment has not yet sent6 an S1,F14 to apreviously received S1,F13 at the time whenCOMMUNICATING becomes active, the S1,F14response shall be sent in a normal manner. Afailure to send the S1,F14 is then treated as anyother communication failure.If the equipment-initiated S1,F13/S1,F14 is stillopen when the transition to COMMUNICATINGoccurs, subsequent failure to receive a reply fromthe host is considered a communication fault byequipment. An S9,F9 should be sent when atransaction timer timeout occurs7. (See Section 4.9for definitions of communication faults andmessage faults, as well as detail on Stream 9 ErrorMessages.) 3.2.5 State Transitions  Table 3.2 contains a fulldescription of the state transitions depicted in Figure3.2.1.When the operator switches from the DISABLED stateto the ENABLED state, no collection event shall occur,since no messages can be sent until communicationshave been established. The process of establishingcommunications serves to notify the host thatcommunications are ENABLED. No other collectionevents are defined for the Communications StateModel. 6 This includes transmissions that may have started but not yetsuccessfully completed at the time that the transition toCOMMUNICATING occurs.7 The existence of a transaction timer is not a requirement in someprotocols, such as SMS (SEMI E13).

&lt;!-- Page 37 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 200311 Table 3.2 Communications State Transition Table # Current State Trigger New State Action Comment1 (Entry toCOMMUNICA-TIONS) System initialization. System Default None. The system defaultmay be set toDISABLED orENABLED.2 DISABLED Operator switchesfrom DISABLED toENABLED. ENABLED None. SECS-IIcommunications areenabled.3 ENABLED Operator switchesfrom ENABLED toDISABLED. DISABLED None. SECS-IIcommunications areprohibited.4 (Entry toENABLED)Any entry toENABLED state.NOTCOMMUNICATINGNone. May enter fromsystem initializationto ENABLED orthrough operatorswitch toENABLED.5 (Entry toEQUIPMENT-INITIATEDCONNECT) (Any entry to NOTCOMMUNICA-TING) WAIT CRA Initializecommunications. SetCommDelay timerexpired. SendS1,F13. Begin the attempt toestablishcommunications. 6 WAIT CRA Connectiontransaction failure.WAIT DELAY InitializeCommDelay timer.Dequeue allmessages queued tosend. If appropriate,dequeued messagesshall be placed inspool buffer in theorder generated. Waitfor timer to expire.7 WAIT DELAY CommDelay timerexpired.WAIT CRA Send S1,F13 Wait for S1,F14.May receive S1,F13from Host.8 WAIT DELAY Received a messageother than S1,F13.WAIT CRA Discard message. Noreply. SetCommDelay timerexpired. SendS1,F13. Indicates opportunityto establishcommunications. 9 WAIT CRA Received expectedS1,F14 withCOMMACK = 0. COMMUNICATING None. Communications areestablished. 10 (Entry to HOST-INITIATEDCONNECT) (Any entry to NOTCOMMUNICA-TING) WAIT CR FROMHOSTNone. Wait for S1,F13 fromHost. 14 COMMUNICATING Communicationfailure. (See SEMIE4 or SEMI E37 fora protocol-specificdefinition ofcommunicationfailure.) NOTCOMMUNICATINGDequeue allmessages queued tosend. Dequeued messagesmay be placed inspool buffer asappropriate. 15 WAIT CR FROMHOSTReceived S1,F13. COMMUNICATING Send S1,F14 withCOMMACK = 0.Communications areestablished.

&lt;!-- Page 38 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 12 3.3 Control State Model  The CONTROL statemodel defines the level of cooperation between the hostand equipment. It also specifies how the operator mayinteract at the different levels of host control. While theCOMMUNICATIONS state model addresses theability for the host and equipment to exchangemessages, the CONTROL model addresses theequipments responsibility to act upon messages that itreceives.The CONTROL model provides the host with threebasic levels of control. In the highest level (REMOTE),the host may control the equipment to the full extentpossible. The middle level (LOCAL) allows the hostfull access to information, but places some limits onhow the host can affect equipment operation. In thelowest level (OFF-LINE), the equipment allows no hostcontrol8 and only very limited information. 9 The control model and communications model (whenimplemented) do not interact directly. That is, no actionor state of one model directly causes a change inbehavior of the other. It is true, however, that when thecommunication state is NOT COMMUNICATINGthen most message transaction are not functional. Whenmessages cannot be transmitted, the control capabilitiesand all other GEM capabilities are affected.Refer to Figure 3.3 as the CONTROL substates andstate transitions are defined.OFF-LINEWhen the OFF-LINE state is active, operation of theequipment is performed by the operator at the operatorconsole. While the equipment is OFF-LINE, messagetransfer is possible. However the use of messaging forany automation purpose is severely restricted. Whilethe OFF-LINE state is active, the equipment will onlyrespond to those messages used for the establishment ofcommunications or a host request to activate the ON-LINE state.While OFF-LINE, the equipment will respond with anSx,F0 to any primary message from the host other thanS1,F13 or S1,F17. It will process and respond toS1,F13 and S1,F17. S1,F17 is used by the host torequest the equipment to transition to the ON-LINEstate. The equipment will accept this request and send apositive response only when the HOST OFF-LINEstate is active (see transition 11 definition below). 8 The host may establish communications. This does not affectequipment operation and for that reason is not termed a controloperation.9 The host may determine the equipment identification via theS1F13/F14 transaction. While the OFF-LINE state is active, the equipmentshall attempt to send no primary message other thanS1,F13, 10 S9,Fx, 11 and S1,F1 (see ATTEMPT ON-LINE substate). If the equipment receives a replymessage from the host other than S1,F14 or S1,F2, thismessage is discarded.No messages enter the spool when the system is OFF-LINE. Spooling may be active when theCommunications State of NOT COMMUNICATING isactive. This might occur during OFF-LINE, but sincethe equipment will not attempt to send messages exceptas mentioned in the previous paragraph 12, no messageswill enter the spool.OFF-LINE has three substates: EQUIPMENT OFF-LINE, ATTEMPT ON-LINE, and HOST OFF-LINE.OFF-LINE/EQUIPMENT OFF-LINEWhile this state is active, the system maintains theOFF-LINE state. It awaits operator instructions toattempt to go ON-LINE.OFF-LINE/ATTEMPT ON-LINEWhile the ATTEMPT ON-LINE state is active, theequipment has responded to an operator instruction toattempt to go to the ON-LINE state. Upon activatingthis state, the equipment attempts to send an S1,F1 tothe host.Note that when this state is active, the system does notrespond to operator actuation of either the ON-LINE orthe OFF-LINE switch. 10 Sending of S1,F13 is based upon the COMMUNICATIONS statemodel.11 S9,Fx messages may be issued only in response to the messages towhich the equipment will normally respond while OFF-LINE (i.e.S1,F13 and S1,F17).12 The equipment may send S1,F1 or S1,F13, but since Stream 1messages are not eligible for spooling, they will not enter the spooleither.

&lt;!-- Page 39 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 200313 Figure 3.3CONTROL State Model OFF-LINE/HOST OFF-LINEWhile the HOST OFF-LINE state is active, theoperators intent is that the equipment be ON-LINE.However, the host has not agreed. Entry to this statemay be due to a failed attempt to go ON-LINE or to thehosts request that the equipment go OFF-LINE fromON-LINE (see the transition table for more detail).While this state is active, the equipment shall positivelyrespond to any hosts request to go ON-LINE (S1,F17).Such a request shall be denied when the HOST OFF-LINE state is not active.ON-LINEWhile the ON-LINE state is active, SECS-II messagesmay be exchanged and acted upon. Capabilities thatmay be available to the host should be similar to thoseavailable from the operator console wherever practical. The use of Sx,F0 messages is not required while theON-LINE state is active. Their use is discouraged inthis case. The only allowed use is to close opentransactions in conjunction with message faults.ON-LINE/LOCALOperation of the equipment is implemented by directaction of an operator. All operation commands shall beavailable for input at the local operator console of theequipment.The host shall have the following capabilities andrestrictions when the LOCAL state is active: The host shall be prohibited from the use of remotecommands that cause physical movement or whichinitiate processing. During processing, the hostshall be prohibited from the use of any remotecommand that affects that process. During processing, the host shall be prohibitedfrom modifying any equipment constants thataffect that process. Other equipment constants shallbe changeable during processing. The host shall beable to modify all available equipment constantswhen no processing is in progress. The host shall be capable of initiating the uploadand download of recipes to/from the recipe storagearea on the equipment. The host shall be capable ofselecting recipes for execution so long as thisaction does not affect any currently executingrecipe. The host shall be able to configure automatic datareporting capabilities including alarms, eventreporting, and trace data reporting. The host shallreceive all such reports at the appropriate times. The host shall be able to inquire for data from theequipment, including status data, equipmentconstants, event reports, process programdirectories, and alarms. The equipment shall be able to perform TerminalServices as defined in GEM.The host shall be allowed any other capabilities thatwere not specifically restricted in the above items aslong as the LOCAL state is active.NOTE 2: Capabilities mentioned above which are notimplemented on a specific equipment may be ignored in thiscontext.ON-LINE/REMOTEFor equipment which supports the GEM capability ofremote control (see Section 4.4), while the REMOTEstate is active, the host shall have access, through thecommunications interface, to the necessary commands

&lt;!-- Page 40 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 14 to operate the equipment through the full process cyclein an automated manner. The equipment does notrestrict any host capabilities when REMOTE is active.The degree of control executed by the host may varyfrom factory to factory. In some cases, the operatormaybe required to interact during remotely controlledprocesses. This interaction may involve set-upoperations, operator assist situations, and others. Thisstate is intended to be flexible enough to accommodatethese different situations.To support the different factory automation policies andprocedures, it shall be possible to configure theequipment to restrict the operator in specific non-emergency procedures. These restrictions shall beconfigurable so that the equipment may be set up toallow the operator to perform necessary functionswithout contention with the host. The categories forconfiguration shall include (but are not limited to): change equipment constants (process-related), change equipment constants (non-process-related), initiate process program download, select process program, start process program, pause/resume process program, operator assist, material movement to/from equipment, equipment-specific commands (on a command-by-command basis if needed).NOTE 3: Capabilities mentioned above which are notimplemented on a specific equipment may be ignored in thiscontext.No capabilities that are available to the operator whenthe LOCAL state is active should be unconditionallyrestricted when the REMOTE state is active. Thesupplier may provide for configurable restriction ofoperator capabilities not included in the list above ifdesired. No configurability is necessary for anyoperator functions not available to the host.The control functions must be shared to some degreebetween the host and the local operator. At the veryleast, the operator must have the capability to changethe CONTROL state, actuate an Emergency Stop, andinterrupt processing (e.g., STOP, ABORT, or PAUSE). All of these capabilities except Emergency Stop may beaccess-limited.13 The host software should be designed to be compatiblewith the capabilities allotted to the operator. 13 Definition of the method of limiting operator access (password,key, etc.) to a capability is not within the scope of this document.

&lt;!-- Page 41 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 200315 Table 3.3 CONTROL State Transition Table# Current State Trigger New State Action Comments1 (Undefined) Entry intoCONTROL state(systeminitialization). CONTROL(Substateconditional onconfiguration). None Equipment may be configured todefault to ON-LINE or OFF-LINE .(See NOTE 1.) 2 (Undefined) Entry into OFF-LINE state.OFF-LINE(Substateconditional onconfiguration.) None Equipment may be configured todefault to any substate of OFF-LINE. 3 EQUIPMENTOFF-LINEOperator actuatesON-LINE switch.ATTEMPT ON-LINENone Note that an S1,F1 is sent wheneverATTEMPT ON-LINE is activated.4 ATTEMPT ON-LINES1,F0. New stateconditional onconfiguration. None This may be due to a communicationfailure (See NOTE 2), reply timeout, orreceipt of S1,F0. Configuration may beset to EQUIPMENT OFF-LINE orHOST OFF-LINE.5 ATTEMPT ON-LINEEquipmentreceives expectedS1,F2 messagefrom the host. ON-LINE None Host is notified of transition to ON-LINE at transition 7. 6 ON-LINE Operator actuatesOFF-LINE switch.EQUIPMENTOFF-LINENone Equipment OFF-LINE event occurs.(See NOTE 3.) Event reply will bediscarded while OFF-LINE is active.7 (Undefined) Entry to ON-LINEstate.ON-LINE(Substateconditional onREMOTE/LOCALswitch setting.) None Control State LOCAL or ControlState REMOTE event occurs. Eventreported based on actual ON-LINEsubstate activated. 8 LOCAL Operator sets frontpanel switch toREMOTE. REMOTE None Control State REMOTE eventoccurs. 9 REMOTE Operator sets frontpanel switch toLOCAL. LOCAL None Control State LOCAL event occurs. 10 ON-LINE Equipment acceptsSet OFF-LINEmessage from host(S1,F15). HOST OFF-LINE None Equipment OFF-LINE event occurs. 11 HOST OFF-LINE Equipment acceptshost request to goON-LINE(S1,F17). ON-LINE None Host is notified to transition to ON-LINE at transition 7. 12 HOST OFF-LINE Operator actuatesOFF-LINE switch.EQUIPMENTOFF-LINENone Equipment OFF-LINE event occurs. NOTE 1: The configuration mentioned for transitions 1 and 2 should be a single setting. This would provide the user with a choice of entering theEQUIPMENT OFF-LINE, ATTEMPT ON-LINE, HOST OFF-LINE, or ON-LINE states.NOTE 2: Communication failures are protocol specific. Refer to the appropriate protocol standard (e.g., SEMI E4 or SEMI E37) for a protocol-specific definition of communication failure.NOTE 3: Any host initiated transaction open at the equipment must be completed. This may happen either by sending the appropriate reply to thehost prior to sending the event message or by sending an Sx,F0 message following the event message (i.e., after the transaction).

&lt;!-- Page 42 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 16 3.4 Equipment Processing States  The behavior ofthe equipment in the performance of its intendedfunction must be documented. This processing statemodel is highly dependent on the equipment process,technology, and style. However, there are expected tobe common aspects to these models.The Processing State Diagram, Figure 3.4, is providedas an example of an implementation model. This modeldemonstrates the expected nature of the processing statemodel documentation. There is no requirement thatthese specific states be implemented.The equipment must generate collection events for eachprocessing state transition, as well as provide statusvariables (ProcessState, PreviousProcessState) whosevalues are the current processing state and the previousprocessing state.In referring to the Processing State Diagram, note thatthe initialization state INIT is not an actual processingstate. It is shown here simply to indicate that the IDLEprocessing state is entered upon completion ofequipment system initialization. On the following pagesdetailed descriptions are provided for the equipmentprocessing states and state transitions (numbered) asshown in the diagram. 3.4.1 Description of Equipment Processing StatesIDLEIn this state the equipment is awaiting instructions.PROCESSING ACTIVEThis state is the parent of all substates where thecontext of process program execution exists.PROCESSThis state is the parent of those substates that refer tothe active preparation and execution of a processprogram.SETUPIn this state all external conditions necessary forprocess execution are satisfied, such as ensuringmaterial is present at the equipment, input/output portsare in the proper state, parameters such as temperatureand pressure values are within limits, etc. If all setupoperations are already complete, then this becomes afall through state and a transition to the next state takesplace.READYIn this state the equipment is ready for processexecution and is awaiting a START command from theoperator or the host. EXECUTINGExecuting is the state in which the equipment isexecuting a process program automatically and cancontinue to do so without external intervention.PAUSEIn this state processing is suspended and the equipmentis awaiting a command.Each state transition is defined in the following table.Note that all transitions in this table should beconsidered collection events. Figure 3.4Processing State Diagram

&lt;!-- Page 43 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 200317 Table 3.4 Processing State Transition Table# Current State Trigger New State Action Comments1 INIT Equipment initializationcomplete.IDLE None None 2 IDLE Commit has been made to setup.SETUP None None 3 SETUP All setup activity hascompleted and the equipmentis ready to receive a STARTcommand. READY This activity isequipment-specific. None 4 READY Equipment has received aSTART command from thehost or operator console. EXECUTING This activity isequipment-specific. None 5 EXECUTING The processing task has beencompleted.IDLE None None 6 PROCESSINGACTIVEEquipment has received aSTOP command from host oroperator console. IDLE None None 7 PROCESSINGACTIVEEquipment has received anABORT command from hostor operator console. IDLE This activity isequipment-specific. None 8 PROCESS The equipment decides toPAUSE due to a conditionsuch as alarm. PAUSE This activity isequipment-specific. For this type ofproblem, anoperator assist isusually required.9 PROCESS Equipment has received aPAUSE command from hostor operator console. PAUSE This activity isequipment-specific. None 10 PAUSE Equipment has received aRESUME command fromhost or operator console. PreviousPROCESSsubstate This activity isequipment-specific. None 4 Equipment Capabilities and ScenariosThis section describes the details of the capabilitiesrequired by GEM and provides scenarios for their use.Capabilities are operations performed by semiconductormanufacturing equipment. These operations areinitiated through the communications interface usingSECS-II messages. A scenario is a group of SECS-IImessages arranged in a sequence to perform acapability. Other information may be included with thescenario for clarity. For each capability, the reader isprovided with a statement of purpose, pertinentdefinitions, a detailed description, requirements, andscenarios.The following capabilities are discussed:Establish CommunicationsEvent Notification Dynamic Event Report ConfigurationVariable Data CollectionTrace Data CollectionLimits MonitoringStatus Data CollectionOn-line IdentificationAlarm ManagementRemote ControlEquipment ConstantsProcess Program ManagementMaterial MovementEquipment Terminal ServicesError Messages

&lt;!-- Page 44 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 18 ClockSpoolingControl 4.1 Establish Communications  The EstablishCommunications capability provides a means offormally establishing communications following systeminitialization or any loss of communications betweencommunicating partners, and thus of notifying thecommunication partner that a period of non-communication has occurred.4.1.1 Purpose  Communications between host andequipment are formally established through use of theEstablish Communications Request/EstablishCommunications Acknowledge transaction.The use of S1,F1/F2 for this purpose is ambiguoussince the transaction can be used for other purposes andmay occur at any time.The S1,F13/F14 transaction, used in conjunction withthe Communications State Model, provides a means forequipment to notify the host, or the host to notify theequipment, that there has been a period of inability tocommunicate. The successful completion of thistransaction also signals a possible need forsynchronization activities between host and equipment. 4.1.2 DefinitionsCOMMACK  Acknowledge code returned in theEstablish Communications Acknowledge message. Seethe SEMI E5 Standard for a full definition of this dataitem.EstablishCommunicationsTimeout  An equipmentconstant used to initialize the interval between attemptsto re-send an Establish Communications Request. Thisvalue specifies the number of seconds for the interval.See the SEMI E5 Standard for a full definition of thisvariable data item. 4.1.3 Description  There are potential problemswhen one side of the communications link fails and theother side does not detect it. From the point of view ofthe host, a loss of communications has many possiblecauses. In some cases, host-controlled settings on theequipment may need to be reset. In other cases, theequipment may have continued an automatic processingsequence during the period of no communication andmay have changed states. The definition of a formalprotocol for establishing communications alerts the hostto the need to synchronize itself with the equipmentscurrent status. Equipment shall consider communications as formallyestablished whenever either of the following conditionshave been satisfied:14  Communications Request has been sent to the hostand an Establish Communications Acknowledgehas been received within the transaction timeoutperiod and with an acknowledge code of Accept, or Communications Request has been received fromthe host, and an Establish CommunicationsAcknowledge response has been successfully sentwith an acknowledge code of Accept.When the equipment sends an EstablishCommunications Request to the host, this notifies thehost of the possible need to synchronize itself with theequipment.When the equipment is attempting to establishcommunications, an Establish Communications Requestshall be sent periodically until communications havebeen formally established as described above. Theinterval between attempts must be user-configurableand begins as soon as a connection transaction failure isdetected (see Section 3.2).Attempting to establish communications is not a low-level connectivity issue, but rather a logical applicationissue used by either party to notify its partner that thehost may need to perform synchronization activitieswith the equipment. 4.1.4 Requirements Equipment must support the Communication StateModel (see Section 3.2). Equipment must provide the EstablishCommunica-tionsTimeout equipment constant described above. 14 Satisfaction of either of these conditions will result in a transitionto the COMMUNICATING substrate. See Section 3.2 for furtherdetail.

&lt;!-- Page 45 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 200319 4.1.5 Scenarios4.1.5.1 Host Attempts to Establish CommunicationsCOMMENT HOST EQUIPMENT COMMENT Communications state is Enabled(any substate)Establish Communications S1,F13--&gt;Request&lt;--S1,F14 Reply COMMACK = Accept andCommunications state =COMMUNICATING 4.1.5.2 Equipment Attempts to Establish Communications and Host AcknowledgesCOMMENT HOST EQUIPMENT COMMENT Communications State = NOT COMMUNICATING\[LOOP\]\[LOOP\]--SEND&lt;--S1,F13 Establish Communications RequestEstablish Communications S1,F14--&gt;Acknowledge \[IF\] S1,F14 rcvd w/o timeouts\[THEN\] exit\_loop--SEND\[ELSE\] Delay for interval inEstablish Commuications-Timeout\[ENDIF\]\[END\_LOOP\]--SEND\[IF\] COMMACK = Accept\[THEN\] Communications state=Communicatingexit\_loop--\[ELSE\] Reset timer for delay,and delay for intervalspecified inEstablishCommunicationsTimeout\[ENDIF\]\[END\_LOOP\]

&lt;!-- Page 46 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 20 4.1.5.3 Simultaneous Attempts to Establish Communications  For equipment that supports interleaving, it ispossible that either the host or equipment could send an Establish Communications Request before receiving therequest from its partner. As communications are established by the successful acceptance of any one EstablishCommunications Request, it is immaterial who sends the request first. The roles of host and equipment may bereversed.Equipment Receives S1,F14 From Host Before Sending S1,F14:COMMENT HOST EQUIPMENT COMMENT Communications State = NOT COMMUNICATING&lt;--S1,F13 Establish Communications RequestEstablish Communications S1,F13--&gt;RequestReply COMMACK = Accept S1,F14--&gt; S1,F14 received from Host andCommunications established 15 andCommunications state =COMMUNICATING&lt;--S1,F14 Reply COMMACK = Accept 16 Equipment Sends S1,F14 To Host Before Receiving S1,F14:COMMENT HOST EQUIPMENT COMMENT Communications State = NOT COMMUNICATING&lt;--S1,F13 Establish Communications RequestEstablish Communications S1,F13--&gt;Request&lt;--S1,F14 Reply COMMACK = Accept 15Communications established 15 andCommunications state =COMMUNICATINGReply COMMACK = Accept S1,F14--&gt; S1,F14 received from Host 15 Communications are establisted at the successful completion of the S1,F13/14 transaction where COMMACK is set to zero.16 Communications are established on the successful transmission of S1,F14, even if there is an open S1,F13. 4.2 Data Collection  Data collection allows the hostto monitor equipment activity via event reporting, tracedata reporting, limits monitoring, and query of selectedstatus or other variable data.4.2.1 Event Data Collection  Event data collectionprovides a dynamic and flexible method for the user totailor the equipment to meet individual needs withrespect to data representation and presentation to thehost. The event-based approach to data collectionprovides automatic notification to the host ofequipment activities and is useful in monitoring theequipment and in maintaining synchronization with theequipment. Event data collection may be broken into two logicalparts: host notification when an event occurs anddynamic configuration of the data attached to the eventnotification. 4.2.1.1 Event Notification  This section describes themethod of notifying the host when equipmentcollection events occur.4.2.1.1.1 Purpose  This capability provides data tothe host at specified points in equipment operation.This asynchronous reporting eliminates the need for thehost to poll the equipment for this information. Eventson the equipment may trigger activity on the part of thehost. Also, knowledge of the occurrence of events

&lt;!-- Page 47 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 200321 related to the equipment state models allows the host totrack the equipment state. An equipments behavior isrelated to its current state. Thus, this capability helpsthe host understand how an equipment will behave andhow it will react to host behavior.4.2.1.1.2 DefinitionsCollection Event  An event (or grouping of relatedevents) on the equipment that is considered significantto the host.Collection Event ID (CEID)  A unique identifier of acollection event. See the SEMI E5 Standard for a fulldefinition of this data item.Event  A detectable occurrence significant to theequipment.Report  A set of variables predefined by theequipment or defined by the host via S2,F33/F34. 4.2.1.1.3 Detailed Description  The equipmentsupplier must provide a set of predefined collectionevents. Specific collection events are required byindividual capabilities and state models. Examples ofcollection events include: The completion of each action initiated by a hostrequested command, Selected processing and material handling activities, Operator action detected by the equipment, A state transition, The setting or clearing of an alarm condition on theequipment, and Exception conditions not considered alarms.See Section 6 for a list of required collection events.The reporting of a collection event may be disabled perevent by the user to eliminate unwanted messages. Anevent report message shall be sent to the host upon theoccurrence of a particular collection event if the collection event (CEID) has been enabled. Attached toeach event message is one or more event reports whichcontain variable data. Section 4.2.1.2 describes thecapability which allows for the dynamic customizationof event reports. The values of any data contained in anevent report message must be current upon theoccurrence of the event. This implies that event reportsbe built at the time of the event occurrence.The equipment shall also provide the S6,F15/F16transaction to allow the host to request the data from aspecific event report. 4.2.1.1.4 Requirements The equipment supplier shall providedocumentation of all collection events defined onthe equipment and the conditions for each event tooccur. The equipment supplier shall provide unique CEIDsfor each of the various collection events that areavailable for reporting. The equipment supplier shall provide a method forenabling and disabling the reporting of each event.This method shall either be available via the hostinterface (see Section 4.2.1.2) or the equipmentsoperator console. For each event, the equipment supplier shall provideeither a default set of report(s) linked to the eventwhich contain data pertinent to that event, or the ability for the user to configure the datalinked to that event via the equipmentsoperator console or host interface (see Section4.2.1.2). 4.2.1.1.5 ScenariosCollection Event Occurs on the Equipment: COMMENT HOST EQUIPMENT COMMENT \[IF\] Event Report is Multi-block&lt;--S6,F5 \[THEN\] send Multi-block inquireMulti-block grant S6,F6--&gt;\[ENDIF\]&lt;--S6,F11 Equipment sends Event ReportHost acknowledges Event Report S6,F12--&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 48 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 22 Host Requests Event Report: COMMENT HOST EQUIPMENT COMMENTS Host requests an event report S6,F15--&gt;&lt;--S6,F16 Equipment sends event report. 4.2.1.2 Dynamic Event Report Configuration  Thissection describes a capability which allows the host todynamically modify the equipment event reportingsetup.4.2.1.2.1 Purpose  This capability is defined toprovide the data reporting flexibility required in somemanufacturing environments. It allows the host toincrease or decrease the data flow according to need.For example, if the performance of an equipmentdegrades, the data flow from that equipment may beincreased to help diagnose the problem.4.2.1.2.2 DefinitionsEventsEnabled  A variable data item that consists ofa list of currently enabled collection events (CEIDs).See SEMI E5 for a full definition of this variable dataitem.Report ID (RPTID)  A unique identifier of a specificreport. See SEMI E5 for a full definition of this dataitem.Variable Data (V)  A data item containing status(SV), data (DVVAL), or constant (ECV) values. SeeSEMI E5 for a full definition of this data item.Variable Data ID (VID)  A unique identifier of avariable data item. The set of VIDs is the union of allSVIDs, ECIDs, and IDs for DVVALs(DVNAMEs). See SEMI E5 for a full definition of thisdata item. 4.2.1.2.3 Detailed Description  The equipment shallsupport the following event report configurationfunctionality through the SECS-II interface: Host definition/deletion of custom reports, Host linking/unlinking of defined reports tospecified collection events, and Host enabling/disabling the reporting of specifiedcollection events.NOTE 4: The equipment may also supply alternative meansfor defining reports and linking reports to events (e.g., via theoperator console). Implementation of alternate means is notrequired. The equipment can be instructed by the host to enableor disable reporting of collection events on anindividual or collective basis. A status value (SV) shallbe available that consists of a list of enabled collectionevents. (See Section 5.2, Variable Item List,EventsEnabled variable.)Reports may be attached to an event report message(S6,F11). These reports are specifically linked to thedesired event and typically contain variable datarelating to that event. The reports may be provided bythe equipment supplier or created by the user. The usermust be able to create reports and link them to eventsvia the SECS-II interface.The data reported in the event report messages mayconsist of Status Values (SVs), Equipment ConstantValues (ECVs), or Data Values (DVVALs). Note thatdata values shall be valid and current on certain eventsand certain states and might not be current at othertimes. The implementor shall document when a datavalue will be current and available for reporting. 4.2.1.2.4 Requirements The equipment manufacturer must providedocumentation of all variable data available fromthe equipment. This is to include variable name,variable type or class (SV, ECV, DVVAL), units,format codes, possible range of values, and adescription of the meaning and use of this variable. The equipment manufacturer must provide uniqueVIDs for the various variable data (V) available fordata collection in the equipment. For example, thismeans that no SV shall have a VID which is thesame as the VID of any ECV or DVVAL. All variable data must be available for reportdefinition and event data collection. See Section5.2, Variable Item List, for a list of requiredvariable data. All report definitions, report-to-event links, andenable/disable status of event reports must beretained in non-volatile storage.

&lt;!-- Page 49 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 200323 4.2.1.2.5 ScenarioCollection Event Reporting Set-up: COMMENT HOST EQUIPMENT COMMENT \[IF\] Define Report is Multi-block\[THEN\] send Multi-block inquire S2,F39--&gt;&lt;-- S2,F40 Multi-block grant.\[ENDIF\]Send report definitions S2,F33--&gt; DATAIDs, RPTIDs, and VIDsreceived.&lt;-- S2,F34 DRACK 17 = 0 the reports are OK\[IF\] Link Event/Report is Multi-block\[THEN\] send Multi-block inquire S2,F39--&gt;&lt;-- S2,F40 Multi-block grant.\[ENDIF\]Link reports to events S2,F35--&gt; CEIDs and the correspondingRPTIDs are received.&lt;-- S2,F36 LRACK = 0 the event linkagesare acceptable.Enable specific collection S2,F37--&gt; Enable/ disable codes (CEEDs)events and the respective eventreporting CEIDs received.&lt;-- S2,F38 ERACK = 0 OK, will generate thespecified reports when theappropriate collection eventshappen 4.2.2 Variable Data Collection4.2.2.1 Purpose  This capability allows the host to query for the equipment data variables and is useful duringinitialization and synchronization.4.2.2.2 DefinitionsReport ID (RPTID)  A unique identifier of a specific report. See SEMI E5 for a full definition of this data item.Variable Data (V)  A variable data item containing status, discrete, or constant data. See SEMI E5 for a fulldefinition of this data item. 4.2.2.3 Detailed Description  The host may request a report containing data variables from the equipment byspecifying the RPTID. It is assumed that the report has been previously defined (e.g., using the Define ReportS2,F33 transaction (see Section 4.2.1)). The values of any status variables (SVs) and equipment constants (ECVs)contained within the report must be current. Discrete data values (DVVALs) are only guaranteed to be valid uponthe occurrence of a specific collection event. If DVVAL cannot be specified in equipment due to some restrictionsdepend on hardware and/or software conditions, the zero length item is reported.4.2.2.4 Requirements Variable data items (Vs) and associated units of measure must be provided by the equipment manufacturer. 17 Define Report Acknowledge Code, see SEMI E5 for full definition of this Data Item.

&lt;!-- Page 50 --&gt;

SEMI E30-1103 © SEMI 1992, 2003 24 4.2.2.5 ScenarioHost Requests Report:COMMENT HOST EQUIPMENT COMMENT Host requests data variablescontained in report RPTID S6,F19--&gt;&lt;--S6,F20 Equipment responds with a list ofvariable data for the givenRPTID. 4.2.3 Trace Data Collection4.2.3.1 Purpose  Trace data collection provides amethod of sampling data on a periodic basis. The time-based approach to data collection is useful in trackingtrends or repeated applications within a time window,or monitoring of continuous data.4.2.3.2 DefinitionsData Sample Period (DSPER)  The time delaybetween samples. See SEMI E5 for a full definition ofthis data item.Reporting Group Size (REPGSZ)  The number ofsamples included per trace report transmitted to thehost. See SEMI E5 for a full definition of this data item.Status Variable (SV)  Status data item (included intrace report). See SEMI E5 for a full definition of thisdata item.Status Variable ID (SVID)  A unique identifier of astatus variable. See SEMI E5 for a full definition of thisdata item.Total Samples (TOTSMP)  Number of samples to betaken during a complete trace period. See SEMI E5 fora full definition of this data item.Trace Request ID (TRID)  An identifier associatedwith a trace request definition. See SEMI E5 for a fulldefinition of this data item. 4.2.3.3 Detailed Description  The equipment shallestablish a trace report as instructed by the host(S2,F23). For a trace report (S6,F1), the host shalldesignate a name for the trace report (TRID), a timeinterval for data sampling (DSPER), the total number ofsamples to be taken (TOTSMP), the number of samplesper trace report (REPGSZ), and a listing of which datawill be sent with the report (SVIDs). The number oftrace reports sent to the host is determined by totalsamples divided by reporting group size(TOTSMP/REPGSZ).The equipment shall sample the specified data (SVs) atthe interval designated by the host (DSPER) and shallsend a predefined trace report to the host for the specified reporting group size (REPGSZ). The tracereport definition shall be automatically deleted from theequipment after the last trace report has been sent.The host may modify or re-initiate a trace functioncurrently in progress by specifying the same TRID in atrace request definition, at which point the old traceshall be terminated and the new trace shall be initiated,or the host can instruct the equipment to terminate atrace report prior to its completion by specifyingTOTSMP = 0 for that TRID, at which point the tracereport definition shall be deleted.A detailed example is included as Application NoteA.4. 4.2.3.4 Requirements The equipment must have a local mechanism (e.g.,internal clock) for triggering the periodic samplingand transmission of trace reports to the host. A minimum of four (4) concurrent traces shall besupported by the equipment. The same SVID maybe collected in multiple traces simultaneously. All SVIDs available at the equipment shall besupported for trace data collection. The exception tothis is any SV that will not fit into a single block.NOTE 5: SEMI E5 provides for SVs to be of a list format.Since this may in practice be a variable list, there is apotential problem with such an SV supported by the TraceData Collection capability. This is a problem with the SEMIE5 standard. Care should be exercised in the use of SVsusing the list format.