---
title: "P9-0298 - © SEMI 1988, 19981..."
description: "SEMI标准文档"
sidebar_label: "P9-0298 - © SEMI 1988, 19981..."
sidebar_position: 111
tags: ['SEMI', 'Standard']
custom_props:
  source_type: 'pdf'
  source_file: 'semi-chapter-111.pdf'
  chapter: 111
  page_count: 50
---

import PdfDownloadCard from '@site/src/components/PdfDownloadCard';

<PdfDownloadCard
  pdfLink="/pdfs/semi/111.pdf"
  pdfSize="N/A"
  title="P9-0298 - © SEMI 1988, 19981..."
  description="SEMI标准文档，共50页"
/>



&lt;!-- Page 1 --&gt;

SEMI P9-0298 © SEMI 1988, 19981 SEMI P9-0298GUIDELINE FOR FUNCTIONAL TESTING OF MICROELECTRONICRESISTS 1 PurposeThe purpose of this guideline is to provide a baselineprogram of test procedures needed to functionally testliquid-developed resists, resist developers, and rinsesfor microelectronic applications. It can also be used as aguide to evaluate process modifications to suchsystems. This guideline is intended to be applicable forphoto, DUV, x-ray, and electron beam processes. 2 BackgroundRelease of the information in this document wasapproved by the SEMI Photolithographic ChemicalsCommittee (Resist Committee) in May 1987. Thiscommittee plans to complete and revise the guideline asappropriate. Comments will be welcomed. 3 ScopeVirtually all lithographic fabrication processes vary insome way from location to location, even for the sametype of resist. Consequently, it is impossible to providea stringent evaluation program acceptable to most users.It is, therefore, the aim of this guideline to provide aprogram of tests and methods that allows variable, butcontrolled, process differences. In order to maintain aproper baseline control for each process, all tests shouldbe run relative to some internal standard product whosefunctional characteristics are known and characterized.It is understood that each product is to be run at its ownpreferred or recommended conditions and that differentproducts maybe evaluated under different conditions. Itshould also be understood that some properties,variables, or conditions, such as normality, are specificto resist type, such as positive photoresist, and are to beused only where applicable. Further, since this guide isdirected to functional testing, it is assumed that anyproducts to be evaluated have passed all relevantchemical and physical testing before such functionaltesting. 4 PrioritiesThis guideline has been divided into two separategroups. The first group, called Sustaining Tests,includes tests that are necessary for timely adjustmentsto coating and exposure conditions in order to maintainconsistent image dimensions (Tables 13). The secondgroup, called Extended Testing, includes tests that arerequired for full evaluation of the resist system (Tables46). These tests may, or may not, be necessary for evaluation of each lot of product, depending on theindividual requirements of the user. 5 Referenced Documents5.1 ASTM Standards1F 518  Practice for Determining Effective Adhesionfor Photoresist of Hard-Surface Photomask Blanks andSemiconductor Wafers during EtchingF 527  Practice for Adjusting Photoresist ExposureTimeF 528  Method for Measurement of Common-Emmiter D-C Current Gain of Junction TransistorsF 804  Practice for Producing Spin Coating ResistThickness CurvesF 863  Practice for Detection of Defects in Spin-coated ResistF 890  Practice for Determining Pinhole Density inPhotoresist Films Used in Microelectonics DeviceProcesssingF 1059  Standard Practice for Calculating theContrast and Threshold Sensitivity of a PositivePhotoresist 6 Terminology6.1 test method  A definitive pro cedure for theidentification, measurement, and evaluation of one ormore qualities, characteristics, or properties of amaterial, product, system, or service that produces a testresult. 1 American Society for Testing and Materials, 100 Barr HarborDrive, West Conshohoken, PA 19428-2959

&lt;!-- Page 2 --&gt;

SEMI P2-0298 © SEMI 1988, 1998 2 Table 1 Sustaining Tests  Resist Coating Characteristic Measured Property Variable Fixed Conditions Test MethodsThickness curve Film thickness Spin speed Viscosity/Solids ASTM F 804SubstrateMeasurement methodSoftbakeCoating programAccelerationDispense volumeExhaust rateEnvironmentFilm uniformity Film thickness Across As aboveWafer to waferStriations Fringes As aboveFilm thickness variation Before and after developingCleanliness Particles In/On coating Filtration ASTM F 863On substrate after removal HousekeepingExternal sourcesDefect sizeTest methodFilm integrity Pin holes Film thickness As above ASTM F 890 Table 2 Sustaining Tests  Characteristic Information Characteristic Measured Property Variable Fixed Conditions Test MethodsThreshold energy Film thickness Exposure energy Measurement methodCalculation methodExposure conditionsDeveloper typeDeveloper normalityDevelopment timeRinse type(s)Agitation/SpraySoftbakeEnvironmentDevelopment rate Film thickness Exposure energy As aboveDevelopment timeContrast Film thickness Exposure energy As above ASTM F 1059Film thicknessResist loss Film thickness Development conditions As aboveScum Resist residue Environment As above

&lt;!-- Page 3 --&gt;

SEMI P9-0298 © SEMI 1988, 19983 Table 3 Sustaining Tests  Imaging Characteristic Measured Property Variable Fixed Conditions Test MethodsFocus Resolution Focus SubstrateExposure energy Film thicknessExposure methodExposure conditionsMeasurement methodDeveloper typeDeveloper normalityDevelopment timeDevelopment methodRinse type(s)Agitation/SprayDevelopment timeSoftbakeEnvironmentExposure requirements Line width Exposure energy As above ASTM F 527Image size ASTM F 528 Table 4 Extended Testing  Resist Coating Characteristic Measured Property Variable Fixed Conditions Test MethodsPlanarization Film thickness variation Film thickness Coating methodTopography Spin speedSoftbakeEnvironmentOrientation of topography Table 5 Extended Testing  Imaging Characteristic Measured Property Variable Fixed Conditions Test MethodsFocus latitude Line width Exposure energy SubstrateFilm thickness variation Focus Film thicknessResolution Exposure methodExposure conditionsLine widthDeveloper typeDeveloper normalityDevelopment timeDevelopment methodRinse type(s)Agitation/SpraySoftbakeEnvironmentExposure latitude As above Exposure energy As aboveDevelopment latitude As above Development normality Line widthContrast Development time Exposure conditions ASTM F 1059Threshold energy Development temperature Developer typeExposure energy Development method

&lt;!-- Page 4 --&gt;

SEMI P2-0298 © SEMI 1988, 1998 4 Characteristic Measured Property Variable Fixed Conditions Test MethodsRinse type(s)Agitation/SpraySoftbakeEnvironmentRinse latitude As above Composition As aboveDeveloper overlapRinse timeSoftbake latitude As above Softbake time Line widthSoftbake temperature Exposure energyExposure conditionsExposure energy Film thicknessRamp rateDevelopment conditionsEnvironmentThickness latitude As above Film thickness As aboveExposed Energy SubstrateResolution As above Exposure method SubstrateExposure energy Exposure energyFilm thickness Exposure conditionsDevelopment conditions Measurement methodSoftbake conditions Developer typeDevelopment methodRinse type(s)Agitation/SprayFocusSoftbakeEnvironmentResist profile Wall angle As above As aboveCorner rounding Pre/Post treatment Hardbake conditionsShape

&lt;!-- Page 5 --&gt;

SEMI P9-0298 © SEMI 1988, 19985 Table 6 Extended Testing  Processing Characteristic Measured Property Variable Fixed Conditions Test MethodsThermal image stability Shape Temperature Post exposureWall angle Line width Image hardeningRamp rateCorner rounding Line widthLine width Film thicknessFilm integrity EnvironmentWet etch adhesion (undercut/side) Line width (top & bottom) Etch time Substrate ASTM F 518Etch temp Etch compositionTemperatureResist treatmentDeveloperWet etch adhesion (bias) Line width etch-resist As above As aboveDry etch resistance Film thickness Hardbake conditions IonLine width Image hardening Process gasesSurface appearance Process conditionsIon implant effects Outgassing Hardbake conditions IonFilm integrity Image hardening PowerTemperatureFilm thicknessResist removal Removal rate Hardbake conditions Stripping timeResidue Post processing Stripping temperatureParticles Removal method NOTICE: These standards do not purport to address safety issues, if any, associated with their use. It is theresponsibility of the user of these standards to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine theapplicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. SEMI makes no warranties or representations as to the suitabilityof the standards set forth herein for any particular application. The determination of the suitability of the standard issolely the responsibility of the user. Users are cautioned to refer to manufacturers instructions, product labels,product data sheets, and other relevant literature respecting any materials mentioned herein. These standards aresubject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility that compliance with this standard may require use of copyrightedmaterial or of an invention covered by patent rights. By publication of this standard, SEMI takes no positionrespecting the validity of any patent rights or copyrights asserted in connection with any item mentioned in thisstandard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of any such patent rights or copyrights, andthe risk of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 6 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 20051 SEMI P10-0705SPECIFICATION OF DATA STRUCTURES FOR PHOTOMASK ORDERS This specification was technically approved by the global Micropatterning Committee. This edition wasapproved for publication by the global Audits and Reviews Subcommittee on April 20, 2005. It wasavailable at www.semi.org in June 2005 and on CD-ROM in July 2005. Originally published in 1990;previously published July 2004. 1 Purpose1.1 These data structure specifications are intended to facilitate the transmittal of mask order data between softwaresystems to allow: automated order placement by mask customers and to allow the automatic processing of such orders by maskshops, and automated delivery of actual mask data by mask shops and to allow the automatic processing of such data bymask customers.1.2 By using these standardized structures, software written independently for either mask customers or mask shopsshould be able to communicate unambiguously with software written by other parties. 2 Scope2.1 This structure only defines the data format for the transmitted file. No particular database or programminglanguage is specified by this standard, except that implementation of the Mask Results Data Structure Syntax is alsoshown in Extensible Markup Language (XML) Format for those that choose to use it. The data file is to betransmitted as an ASCII file. As such, it is compatible with the SECS-II standard.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to address safety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine theapplicability of regulatory or other limitations prior to use. 3 Limitations3.1 For a given customer, all pattern file names must be unique. (i.e., Pattern files which are different may not havethe same name.)3.2 For a given customer, all job file names must be unique. (i.e., Job files which are different may not have thesame name.)3.3 For a given customer, each mask set must have a unique identification.3.4 For a given customer, each magnetic tape or other physical media delivered to the mask shop must have aunique identification.3.5 All , , FRACTURE\_FILE, MEASURE\_FILE\_NAME andCD\_MATRIX\_FILE\_NAME files should be introduced through a structure to be used within the. If such files are referenced in a without identification through , specificmethods to identify and locate such files must be established between the customer and the vendor. 4 Referenced Standards and Documents4.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI P1  Specification for Hard Surface Photomask SubstratesSEMI P2  Specification for Chrome Thin Films for Hard Surface PhotomasksSEMI P4  Specification for Round Quartz Photomask SubstratesSEMI P5  Specification for PelliclesSEMI P6  Specification for Registration Marks for Photomasks

&lt;!-- Page 7 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 2 SEMI P21  Guidelines for Precision and Accuracy Expression for Mask Writing EquipmentSEMI P22  Guideline for Photomask Defect Classification And Size DefinitionSEMI P24  CD Metrology ProceduresSEMI P29  Guideline for Description of Characteristics Specific to Halftone/Attenuated Phase Shift Masks andMask BlanksSEMI P35  Terminology for Microlithography MetrologySEMI P37  Specification for Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography Mask SubstratesSEMI P38  Specification for Absorbing Film Stacks and Multilayers on Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography MaskBlanksSEMI P39  Specification for Open Artwork System Interchange Standard (OASIS)SEMI P43  Photomask Qualification Terminology4.2 ISO Standards1 ISO 4217:2001  Currency and funds code list2 ISO 8601:2000  Date and time notation3 NOTICE: Unless otherwise indicated, all documents cited shall be the latest published versions. 5 Terminology5.1 See 8. 6 Instructions and Conventions6.1 Each record in the file will be composed of a specific keyword identifier followed by one or more data values,and will be terminated by a carriage return and/or linefeed.6.2 Only records which are required to specify the order need to be included in the transmitted file,but each record included must appear in the sequence shown in the syntax specification.6.3 Subsequent modifications or additions to the mask set require transmittal of all the information for the specificmasks involved, including previously transmitted keywords and data fields if they still apply. Masks previouslyordered which are not affected by the new order transmission may have their , or omitted as appropriate.6.4 Options are specified hierarchically such that those specified at a higher level are the default for all masksbelow, unless overridden at a lower level. The hierarchy is such that mask set options are overridden by mask groupoptions, followed by mask definition, cell definition, cell instance, pattern group definition, and pattern definition.6.5 Mask groups describe sets of masks which are similarly constructed. In simple cases there will be only onemask group per mask set. Multiple mask groups will be needed to describe mix-and-match sets, or for situationswithin a mask set where different features are required on some masks.6.6 Pattern group definitions are intended for patterns which are similarly placed on all or most masks within amask group (e.g., primary pattern files or test pattern files).6.7 Cell definitions describe the construction of clusters of pattern groups and/or other cells. ThePLACEMENT\_TOP\_CELL under a mask group describes the overall layout of the cells on all masks within themask group. 1 International Organization for Standardization, ISO Central Secretariat, 1, rue de Varemb, Case postale 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland.Telephone: 41.22.749.01.11; Fax: 41.22.733.34.30, Website: www.iso.ch2 http://www.bsi-global.com/Technical+Information/Publications/\_Publications/tig90.xalter3 http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/iso-time.html

&lt;!-- Page 8 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 20053 6.8 Within a given mask set, each mask must have a unique identification (MASK\_ID), independent of any titles onthe mask.6.9 Masks which require multiple writing operations (such as phase shift masks) will find those MASK\_IDsidentified with the same group number by the MULTIWRITE keyword.6.10 The MASK\_IDs defined under a mask group specify the masks to be built. The MASK\_IDs also identifywhich patterns are to appear on the mask. A pattern is placed on the mask if and only if the MASK\_ID matches theLEVEL\_ID of a pattern referenced under the mask groups PLACEMENT\_TOP\_CELL.6.11 and LOCATIONs position the center of the patterns relative to thecenter of the CELL\_ID referencing them. The cell referenced by the PLACEMENT\_TOP\_CELL is positioned at thecenter of the mask.6.12 Job file data may be supplied in place of cell and pattern group data. In this case, the MASK\_ID is understoodto correspond to JOB\_LEVEL in JOB\_NAME.6.13 For coordinate locations, unless otherwise specified for a given keyword, mask options are relative to thenominal center of the mask, while cell or pattern options are relative to the center of the cell or pattern. Maskcoordinates are after scaling and mirroring, whereas cell and pattern options are before scaling and mirroring. Thecoordinates and directions refer to right-handed, rectangular (Cartesian) coordinates, applied to the substrate beingwritten. All of these features and the orientation of all other patterns written on the substrate assume that it is fromthe perspective of the mask writing tool (i.e., chrome side up). The nominal center of the mask is determined usingthe bottom and left edges (chrome side up) and assumes nominal substrate dimensions. (See SEMI P1.)6.14 All data in the structure will be in ASCII. The keyword in each record must include only upper case alphabeticcharacters and underscore.6.15 Records (keyword, data value, comment and new line) may not exceed 256 characters. Some records may berepeated (e.g., BUSINESS\_ADDRESS) in order to allow for longer field requirements; these are explicitly indicatedin the syntax specification.6.16 Comments may be included in records by preceding them with an exclamation point (!). Any data following anexclamation point and preceding a carriage return and/or linefeed will be ignored. Such comments are included inthe 256 character record limit. If a record starts with an exclamation point, the entire record will be ignored. Onlyprintable ASCII characters (plus spaces and tabs) are permitted in comments. Comments are for development anddiagnostic purposes only. In commercial use, comments may always be ignored by the recipient withoutconsequence. On the other hand, ADDITIONAL\_...\_INFO records must be evaluated by the recipient and applied tothe masks being ordered, and may justify delay in mask delivery.6.17 Spaces or tabs preceding the keyword will be ignored. At least one space or tab must precede the data field.Spaces and tabs imbedded in alphanumeric data fields will be preserved. Spaces or tabs may not be imbedded withinnumeric data values, but may be used to separate data values in multi-value data fields. At least one comma mustappear between adjacent data values in multi-value data fields; more than one comma may not appear betweenadjacent data values. Spaces or tabs trailing the last data value in a data field will be ignored.6.18 All numeric record values which require units will be in metric unless otherwise specified in 8. Units oflength or position will be in microns unless otherwise specified.6.19 Dates will be in the numeric format YYYY-MM-DD. Times will be in the format HH:MM:SSZ or HH:MMZ.Within the transmitted file, times and dates will always be Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) and times will befollowed by the suffix Z.6.20 Sizing to achieve a CD\_TARGET from a CD\_DATA must be applied to all pattern files hierarchicallyaffected by the CD\_TARGET record.6.21 Binary data manipulation operations expect operands (input pattern files) to align center-to-center. Thisrequires that DATA\_PATTERN\_WINDOW be defined for patterns which do not contain an explicit record of fileextents.6.22 All references to horizontal (or x) and vertical (or y) correspond to normal Cartesian coordinates andassume the rotational orientation of the substrate when the mask was written.

&lt;!-- Page 9 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 4 6.23 All keywords can be followed by specifying the destination and/or method oftransmission for the transmitted data. Whenever applicable, the SEMI file (see 7.5) should be sentaccordingly if electronic transmission is specified.6.24 keywords which require reference to specific mask feature locations will referenceCD\_SITE\_ID and/or REGISTR\_MARK\_ID which must be unique for each location within all transmissions of for a given MASK\_SET\_ID.6.25 When modifications to this standard are required between ballot cycles (e.g. new data field values onrequest), users should contact the N.A. SEMI P10 task force leader directly. After a poll of the active task forcemembers, a tentative recommendation will be posted on the SEMI P10 task force web site at SEMI so that all userscan adopt a common interim solution until a formal ballot can officially resolve the issue.6.26 Every effort should be made to construct a SEMI P10 file without inconsistencies or ambiguities. If a vendordetects such flaws in a file from a customer, the vendor should contact the customer to correct the inconsistenciesand/or remove the ambiguities before proceeding with making the mask. 7 Syntax SpecificationThe following specifies the syntax for the mask order structures. The record order is specific; records must appear inthe sequence shown. Terminology for the individual records and their allowed data values are specified in 8.7.1 Syntax Symbol Definition  The lower case syntactic names within &lt; &gt; are used to refer to collections ofrecords. The use of &#123; &#125; around records or collections of records means an arbitrary number of repetitions of therecords, including none at all. The use of \[ \] around a record or collection of records means that the collection isoptional.7.2 Record Syntax  A keyword is followed by a data field which is followed by an optional comment. The recordis terminated by a carriage return and/or linefeed. Each of these elements may be preceded by any combination ofspaces or tabs, which will be ignored. At least one space or tab is required preceding the first data value in therecord. An exclamation point (!) is required to initiate a comment. Exclamation points, carriage returns, andlinefeeds are not allowed in keywords, data values or comments. Note that a record consisting of a comment only isalso allowed. The syntax for individual records is defined as: = \[&#123;&#125; &#123;&#125; \]\[&#123;&#125; ! \]&#123;&#125; where separator is a space or a tab, comment is any string of printable ASCII characters (plus spaces and tabs),and new\_line is a carriage return, linefeed or both.7.3 Multi-value Data Field Syntax  When data\_field contains more than one data\_value, such as (x,y) pairs or(x1,y1,x2,y2) double pairs (see 8), the individual values must be separated by a comma and any combination ofspaces or tabs. One comma is required between each data\_value, but not more than one comma. Two commaswithout an intervening data value are not permissible.(x,y) = data\_value &#123;separator&#125; comma &#123;separator&#125; data\_value(x,y,z) = (x,y) &#123;separator&#125; comma &#123;separator&#125; (z)(x1,y1,x2,y2) = (x1,y1) &#123;separator&#125; comma &#123;separator&#125; (x2,y2)(x,y,x1,y1,x2,y2) = (x,y) &#123;separator&#125; comma &#123;separator&#125; (x1,y1,x2,y2)For data manipulation operations only, a semicolon separates layers from its datatype, and a dash indicates a rangeof layers or a range of datatypes.layer1;datatype6 , layer3-layer4;datatype1-datatype9

&lt;!-- Page 10 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 20055 7.4 Mask Order Structure Syntax  The following syntax definition uses the upper case keyword to represent thepermissible applications of the corresponding data record within the mask order structure. \= START\_ORDER SEMI\_REVISION CUSTOMER VENDORFILE\_DATE\_TIME \[OPERATOR\_NAME\] END\_ORDER CHECKSUM = MASK\_SET\_ID END\_MASK\_SET\_OPTIONS&#123;&#125; END\_MASK\_SET = \[BUSINESS\_CONTACT\] &#123;BUSINESS\_ADDRESS&#125; &#123;BUSINESS\_PHONE&#125;&#123;BUSINESS\_FAX&#125; \[BUSINESS\_EMAIL\]\[BILLING\_CONTACT\] &#123;BILLING\_ADDRESS&#125;&#123;BILLING\_PHONE&#125; &#123;BILLING\_FAX&#125; \[BILLING\_EMAIL\]\[DESIGN\_RULE\] \[FAB\_TECHNOLOGY\] \[WAFER\_FAB\]\[CUSTOMER\_SPEC CUSTOMER\_SPEC\_REVISION\]&#123;WAIVER&#125; &#123;WAIVER\_OVERRIDE&#125;\[PRICE\_UNITS\]\[SECURITY\_CLASS\] \[QS9000\]\[ENGINEERING\_CONTACT\] &#123;ENGINEERING ADDRESS&#125; &#123;ENGINEERING\_PHONE&#125;&#123;ENGINEERING\_FAX&#125; \[ENGINEERING\_EMAIL\]\[SHIPPING\_CONTACT\] &#123;SHIPPING\_ADDRESS&#125; &#123;SHIPPING\_PHONE&#125;&#123;SHIPPING\_FAX&#125; \[SHIPPING\_EMAIL\]&#123;SHIPPING\_METHOD&#125;\[REPAIRS\_AUTHORIZED\]\[\]&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;\[MASK\_SET\_NAME \[MASK\_SET\_VERSION\] \] \[ORDER\_ID\]&#123;ADDITIONAL\_MASK\_SET\_INFO&#125; = DATA\_MEDIUM \[DATA\_LOCATION\] \[DATA\_ID\]\[DATA\_FORMAT \[DXF\_ANGLE DXF\_UNIT\] \]\[DATA\_DENSITY\] \[DATA\_FILE\_SIZE\]\[DATA\_COMPRESSION\] \[DATA\_CONSOLIDATION\] \[DATA\_ENCRYPTION\]\[DATA\_CHECKSUM DATA\_CHECKSUM\_TYPE \]&#123;&#125; &#123;&#125;\[FRACTURE\_FILE FRACTURE\_FILE\_FORMAT\]&#123;MEASURE\_FILE\_NAME \[MEASURE\_FILE\_FORMAT\] &#125;&#123;CD\_MATRIX\_FILE\_NAME \[CD\_MATRIX\_FILE\_FORMAT\] &#125;END\_DATA\_MEDIUM = DATA\_PATTERN\_NAME &#123;PATTERN\_FORMAT&#125; \[DATA\_FILE\_NUMBER\]\[PATTERN\_UNITS\] \[PATTERN\_CHARACTER\_SET\]

&lt;!-- Page 11 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 6 \[FRACTURE\_FILE\]&#123; \[\] \[\] &#125;END\_DATA\_PATTERN\_NAME = START\_DATA\_MANIPULATION\[BOOLEAN\[PATTERN\_GENERATION\_AREA\] &#123; &#125; \]&#123;&#125;END\_DATA\_MANIPULATION = DATA\_SOURCE\_FILE \[PATTERN\_FORMAT\]\[DATA\_TOP\_CELL\] \[DATA\_LAYER\_ID\]\[DATA\_PATTERN\_WINDOW\]&#123;&#125;END\_DATA\_SOURCE\_FILE = START\_DATA\_FUNCTIONDATA\_FUNCTION\_PURPOSE&#123; SOFTWARE\_NAME &#123;SOFTWARE\_REVISION&#125;&#123; RUNSET\_NAME \[RUNSET\_REVISION\] \[DATA\_LOCATION\]&#123; PARAMETER\_FILE\_NAME \[PARAMETER\_FILE\_REVISION\] &#125;&#123; INPUT\_FILE\_NAME INPUT\_FILE\_FORMAT\[TOP\_CELL\] \[DATA\_LOCATION\] &#125;&#123;RESULT\_FILE\_NAME&#125; &#123;SUMMARY\_FILE\_NAME&#125; &#123;LOG\_FILE\_NAME&#125; &#125; &#125;END\_DATA\_FUNCTION = START\_DATA\_FRACTURE\[SIZING \[SIZING\_RULE\] \[SIZING\_BORDER\_RULE\] \]\[FRACTURING\_SCALE\] \[DATA\_SCALE\_FACTOR\]\[PATTERN\_ADDRESS\_SIZE\]\[DARK\_INTERNAL\_WINDOW\] \[CLEAR\_INTERNAL\_WINDOW\]\[EXTERNAL\_WINDOW\] \[ROTATION\] \[MIRROR\]END\_DATA\_FRACTURE = DATA\_JOB\_NAME JOB\_FORMAT = STD\_PATTERN\_NAME PATTERN\_FORMAT = MASK\_GROUP\_ID \[\] END\_MASK\_GROUP\_OPTIONSPLACEMENT\_TOP\_CELL &#123;&#125;&#123;&#125; &#123;&#125; END\_MASK\_GROUP = \[BLANKET\_PO\_NUMBER\] \[PO\_NUMBER\] \[SO\_NUMBER\] \[ORDER\_ID\]\[RELEASE\_NUMBER\] \[LINE\_ITEM\_NUMBER\] \[QUOTE\_NUMBER\]\[STATUS\]\[DUE\_DATE\_TIME\_REQUESTED\] \[DELIVERY\_PRIORITY\]

&lt;!-- Page 12 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 20057 \[LAYER\_PRIORITY \[ELAPSED\_TIME\] \]\[MILESTONES \] \[PERIODIC\_UPDATES \]\[ESTIMATED\_ARRIVALS \]\[BUSINESS\_CONTACT\] &#123;BUSINESS\_ADDRESS&#125; &#123;BUSINESS\_PHONE&#125;&#123;BUSINESS\_FAX&#125; \[BUSINESS\_EMAIL\]\[BILLING\_CONTACT\] &#123;BILLING\_ADDRESS&#125;&#123;BILLING\_PHONE&#125; &#123;BILLING\_FAX&#125; \[BILLING\_EMAIL\]\[PRICE\]&#123;PTC\_HOURS \[PTC\_RATE\] \[PTC\_FIXED\] &#125;\[EWT\_THRESHOLD EWT\_RATE \[EWT\_CEILING\] \]\[SECURITY\_CLASS\] \[QS9000\]\[SHIPPING\_CONTACT\] &#123;SHIPPING\_ADDRESS&#125; &#123;SHIPPING\_PHONE&#125;&#123;SHIPPING FAX&#125; \[SHIPPING\_EMAIL\]&#123;SHIPPING\_METHOD&#125;\[REPAIRS\_AUTHORIZED\]\[\]&#123; MFG\_SITE\_REQD &#125;&#123; \[LITHO\_EQUIP\_REQD\] &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125;&#123; \[LITHO\_MODEL\_REQD\] &#123;LITHO\_MODE\_REQD&#125; &#125; &#125;PRODUCT\_TYPE \[PRODUCT\_MAGNIFICATION\] \[PRODUCT\_IMAGING\_TYPE\]\[QUANTITY\] \[PRODUCT\_AS\_CHECKPLATE\]\[MULTIWRITE\]&#123;WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_TOOL&#125;\[ \]\[FAB\_TECHNOLOGY\] \[WAFER\_FAB\]\[JOB\_NAME\] \[JOB\_LEVEL\]\[RETROFIT\_JOB\_NAME\] \[RETROFIT\_JOB\_LEVEL\]\[RETROFIT\_MASK\_SET\_ID\] \[RETROFIT\_MASK\_ID\]\[RETROFIT\_MASK\_SET\_NAME \[RETROFIT\_MASK\_SET\_VERSION\]\[RETROFIT\_MASK\_NAME\] \]&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;\[JOB\_ONLY\_APPROVAL\_REQD\] \[JOB\_WITH\_PATTERNS\_APPROVAL\_REQD\]&#123;PATTERN\_APPROVAL\_REQD&#125; \[ALL\_PATTERNS\_APPROVAL\_REQD\]&#123;APPROVAL\_REQD&#125;&#123;REVIEW\_REQD&#125;\[SERIAL\_NUMBER\]\[MIRROR\_MASK\] \[MASK\_ROTATION\]\[\]\[UT1X\_UNCUT\] \[PROCESS\] \[PROCESS\_ETCHING\_TYPE\]

&lt;!-- Page 13 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 8 \[CUSTOMER\_SPEC CUSTOMER\_SPEC\_REVISION\]&#123;TOP\_PELLICLE\_TYPE \[TOP\_PELLICLE\_CENTRALITY\_ERROR\] \[PRICE\] &#125;&#123;BOTTOM\_PELLICLE\_TYPE \[BOTTOM\_PELLICLE\_CENTRALITY\_ERROR\] \[PRICE\]&#125;\[GUIDES\_REQD \[PRICE\] \]\[CENTRALITY\]&#123;&#125;\[REGISTR\_CLOSURE \[REGISTR\_CLOSURE\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]&#123;REGISTR\_CLOSURE\_EQUIP\_REQD&#125; &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125;\[REGISTR\_CLOSURE\_BEGIN REGISTR\_CLOSURE\_END\] \]\[BUTTING\_ERROR \[BUTTING\_ERROR\_METHOD\] \]&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;\[MIN\_MASK\_FEATURE\_SIZE\] \[MIN\_CORNER\_TO\_CORNER\_GAP\]\[PERCENT\_CLEAR\]&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;\[INSPECTION\_REF\_LOCATION\]&#123;&#125;\[INSPECT\_THROUGH\_PELLICLE \]&#123;&#125;\[QUALITY\_GROUP\_ID\]\[COMPACT\_LABEL\]&#123;PACKAGE \[MAX\_MASKS\_IN\_PACKAGE\] &#125;&#123;ADDITIONAL\_MASK\_INFO&#125; = START\_WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_DATAWAFER\_EXPOSURE\_NUMERICAL\_APERATURE\[WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_SIGMA\]\[WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_SIGMA\_INNER WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_SIGMA\_OUTER\]WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_ILLUMINATIONEND\_WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_DATA = START\_AERIAL\_IMAGE\_DATAAIM\_WAVELENGTH\[AIM\_INTENSITY\_VARIATION\_DELTA\]\[AIM\_FLUX\_INTENSITY\_DELTA\]\[AIM\_CD\_DELTA\]END\_AERIAL\_IMAGE\_DATA = START\_TITLE \[TITLE\_TEXT\] \[TITLE\_TYPE\] \[TITLE\_FONT\] \[TITLE\_HEIGHT\]\[TITLE\_MAG\] \[TITLE\_JUSTIFICATION\] \[TITLE\_LOCATION\] \[MIRROR\_TITLE\]

&lt;!-- Page 14 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 20059 \[ROTATE\_TITLE\] \[ROTATE\_TITLE\_CHARACTERS\] END\_TITLE = START\_BARCODE \[BARCODE\_TYPE\] \[BARCODE\_TEXT\] \[BARCODE\_LOCATION\]\[BARCODE\_ROTATION\] END\_BARCODE = START\_SUBSTRATE\[BLANK\_SIZE\] \[BLANK\_TYPE\] \[BLANK\_GRADE\] \[BLANK\_FLATNESS\]\[MASK\_COATING\] \[RESIST\_TYPE\] \[RESIST\_THICKNESS\]\[BLANK\_BIREFRINGENCE\_REQD\]\[ATTENUATOR\] \[COATING\_GRADE\]\[\]END\_SUBSTRATE = EUV\_BLANK\_TYPEEUV\_FLATNESS\_FRONTEUV\_FLATNESS\_BACKEUV\_MULTILAYER\_COMPOSITIONEUV\_CAPPING\_COMPOSITIONEUV\_MMR\_WAVELENGTHEUV\_MEAN\_PEAK\_REFLECTIVITYEUV\_PEAK\_REFLECTIVITY\_UNIFORMITYEUV\_ABSORBER\_COMPOSITIONEUV\_ABSORBER\_OPTICAL\_PROPERTIESEUV\_BLANK\_RESISTANCEEUV\_EXPANSION\_COEFF = START\_SHIP\_PLOTPLOT\_TYPE PLOT\_SCALE QUANTITY \[PRICE\]\[PLOT\_FORMAT\] \[PATTERN\_PLOT\_NORMAL\_TONE\]\[\]END\_SHIP\_PLOT = SHIP\_FILM \[QUANTITY\]\[FILM\_SCALE\] \[FILM\_SIZE\] \[FILM\_COLOR\] \[FILM\_NORMAL\_TONE\]\[PRICE\] \[\] END\_SHIP\_FILM = START\_PHASE\_SHIFT \[PHASE\_SHIFT\_QUALITY\_ID\]PSM\_WAVELENGTH\[TRANSMISSION\_TARGET\[TRANSMISSION\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[TRANSMISSION\_TOLERANCE\]\[TRANSMISSION\_RANGE\] \[TRANSMISSION\_ERROR\]&#123;TRANSMISSION\_EQUIP\_REQD \[TRANSMISSION\_MODE\_REQD\] &#125;&#123; \[TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_SITE\_ID\] TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_LOCATION &#125;\[TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_FEATURE\]\[TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_LOCATION\_DRAWING\]

&lt;!-- Page 15 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 10 \[TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_DRAWING\] \]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_TARGET\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_TOLERANCE\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_RANGE\] \[PHASE\_ANGLE\_ERROR\]&#123;PHASE\_ANGLE\_EQUIP\_REQD \[PHASE\_ANGLE\_MODE\_REQD\] &#125;&#123; \[PHASE\_ANGLE\_SITE\_ID\] PHASE\_ANGLE\_MARK\_LOCATION &#125;\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_MARK\_FEATURE\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_MARK\_LOCATION\_DRAWING\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_MARK\_DRAWING\] \]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_TARGET\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_TOLERANCE\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_RANGE\] \[ETCH\_DEPTH\_ERROR\]&#123;ETCH\_DEPTH\_EQUIP\_REQD \[ETCH\_DEPTH\_MODE\_REQD\] &#125;&#123; \[ETCH\_DEPTH\_SITE\_ID\] ETCH\_DEPTH\_MARK\_LOCATION &#125;\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_MARK\_FEATURE\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_MARK\_LOCATION\_DRAWING\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_MARK\_DRAWING\] \]END\_PHASE\_SHIFT = START\_REGISTR \[REGISTR\_QUALITY\_ID\]\[REGISTR\_ERROR\] \[REGISTR\_SCALE \[REGISTR\_SCALE\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]\[REGISTR\_RESIDUAL \[REGISTR\_RESIDUAL\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]\[REGISTR\_THREE\_SIGMA \[REGISTR\_THREE\_SIGMA\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]\[REGISTR\_RESIDUAL\_THREE\_SIGMA\[REGISTR\_RESIDUAL\_THREE\_SIGMA\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]\[REGISTR\_TOLERANCE\]\[REGISTR\_ORTHO \[REGISTR\_ORTHO\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]\[REGISTR\_RELATIVE \[REGISTR\_RELATIVE\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]&#123;REGISTR\_REF\_MASK\_ID REGISTR\_REF\_MASK\_SET\_ID&#125;&#123;REGISTR\_REF\_MASK\_NAME REGISTR\_REF\_MASK\_SET\_NAME\[REGISTR\_REF\_MASK\_SET\_VERSION\] &#125;&#123;REGISTR\_EQUIP\_REQD&#125; &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125;\[REGISTR\_STD\_GRID\] &#123;REGISTR\_REF\_METHOD\_REQD&#125;\[REGISTR\_ALGORITHM\] \[REGISTR\_COMPENSATION\_TEMPERATURE\]&#123; \[REGISTR\_MARK\_ID\] \[MASK\_REGISTR\_MARK\] \[CELL\_REGISTR\_MARK\]\[MEASURE\_FILE\_NAME\]\[REGISTR\_MARK\_FEATURE\]\[REGISTR\_MARK\_LOCATION\_DRAWING\] \[REGISTR\_MARK\_DRAWING\]\[REGISTR\_MARK\_SEPARATION REGISTR\_MARK\_COUNT\] &#125;

&lt;!-- Page 16 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200511 END\_REGISTR = START\_CD\[\]\[NUMBER\_OF\_CDS\]&#123; \[CD\_SITE\_ID\] CD\_LOCATION &#125; \[CD\_MATRIX\_FILE\_NAME\]END\_CD = \[CD\_QUALITY\_ID\] \[CD\_DATA\] \[CD\_DIGITIZED\] \[CD\_TONE\_CLEAR\]\[CD\_MORPHOGRAPHY\]\[CD\_PERCENT\_CLEAR\] \[CD\_PERCENT\_CLEAR\_WINDOW\]\[CD\_TARGET\] \[CD\_ORIENTATION\] \[CD\_PITCH\]\[CD\_FEATURE\] \[CD\_LOCATION\_DRAWING\] \[CD\_DRAWING\]\[CD\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[CD\_TOLERANCE\]\[CD\_RANGE\] \[CD\_THREE\_SIGMA\]\[CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_TARGET\] \[CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_MEAN\]\[CD\_STD\] \[CD\_CORRELATION\_ID\]&#123;CD\_EQUIP\_REQD&#125; &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125; = START\_CD\_SET&#123;CD\_GROUP\_NAME&#125;\[CD\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[CD\_QUALITY\_ID\]\[CD\_TOLERANCE\] \[CD\_RANGE\] \[CD\_THREE\_SIGMA\]\[CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_TARGET\] \[CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_MEAN\]\[CD\_STD\] \[CD\_CORRELATION\_ID\]END\_CD\_SET = START\_CD\_XY\_DEFINITION&#123;CD\_X\_GROUP&#125; &#123;CD\_Y\_GROUP&#125;&#123;&#125;\[CD\_XY\_TOLERANCE\] \[CD\_XY\_DEVIATION\]\[CD\_XY\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]END\_CD\_XY\_DEFINITION = START\_CD\_XY\_SITE&#123; \[CD\_HORIZONTAL\_ID\] CD\_HORIZONTAL\_LOCATION\[CD\_VERTICAL\_ID\] CD\_VERTICAL\_LOCATION &#125;END\_CD\_XY\_SITE = START\_CD\_ISO\_DENSE&#123;CD\_ISO\_GROUP&#125; &#123;CD\_DENSE\_GROUP&#125;\[CD\_ISO\_DENSE\_TOLERANCE\]\[CD\_ISO\_DENSE\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]END\_CD\_ISO\_DENSE

&lt;!-- Page 17 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 12 \= START\_OPC\[OPC\_TYPE \[OPC\_MINIMUM\_FEATURE\_SIZE\] \[OPC\_MINIMUM\_GAP\]\[OPC\_PATTERN\_SEPARATE\] \[OPC\_PATTERN\_MODIFIABLE\] \]END\_OPC = START\_DEFECT\_DEFINITION \[DEFECT\_QUALITY\_ID\]\[VISUAL\_INSPECTION\_OK\] \[VISUAL\_INSPECTION\_REQD\]&#123;VISUAL\_INSP\_CRITERIA&#125;\[AUTO\_INSPECTION\_REQD\] \[DIE\_TO\_DIE\_INSPECTION\]\[DEFECT\_SIZE\] \[DEFECT\_SIZE\_CL\] \[DEFECT\_SIZE\_DK\]\[DEFECT\_SIZE\_CL\_ADJ\] \[DEFECT\_SIZE\_CL\_ADJ\_REP\]\[DEFECT\_SIZE\_DK\_ADJ\] \[DEFECT\_SIZE\_DK\_ADJ\_REP\]\[DEFECT\_SIZE\_CL\_ISO\] \[DEFECT\_SIZE\_CL\_ISO\_REP\]\[DEFECT\_SIZE\_DK\_ISO\] \[DEFECT\_SIZE\_DK\_ISO\_REP\]\[DEFECT\_DENSITY\] \[DEFECT\_COUNT\] \[DEFECT\_COUNT\_REP\]\[DEFECTIVE\_DIE\_DENSITY\] \[DEFECTIVE\_DIE\_COUNT\]\[DEFECTIVE\_DIE\_COUNT\_REP\]\[PERCENT\_DEFECTIVE\_DIE\]\[EDGE\_ROUGHNESS\]&#123;INSPECTION\_AREA&#125; &#123;INSPECTION\_AREA\_EXCLUDE&#125;&#123;SCRATCH\_SIZE\_FRONT &#123;SCRATCH\_INSP\_AREA &#123;SCRATCH\_INSP\_EXCLUDE &#125;&#125;&#125;&#123;SCRATCH\_SIZE\_BACK &#123;SCRATCH\_INSP\_AREA &#123;SCRATCH\_INSP\_EXCLUDE &#125;&#125;&#125;\[GOOD\_FIELDS\]&#123;DEFECT\_EQUIP\_REQD &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125; \[DEFECT\_INSP\_MODE\_REQD\]\[DEFECT\_INSP\_PIXEL\_SIZE\_REQD\]&#123; DEFECT\_TYPE DEFECT\_INSP\_SENSITIVITY\_REQD&#123; BIN\_SIZE SEVERITY\_CRITERION\_REQD &#125; &#125;\[ DEFECT\_SETUP\_FILE\_NAME\_REQD\] &#125;\[\]\[\]END\_DEFECT\_DEFINITION = DATABASE\_INSPECTION \[PRICE\]\[DATABASE\_SOURCE\]\[DATABASE\_TOP\_CELL DATABASE\_LAYER\]\[DATABASE\_FILE\_NAME\]\[DATABASE\_UNIT\] \[USER\_UNIT\]\[DATABASE\_WITH\_JOB \[DATABASE\_JOB\_NAME DATABASE\_JOB\_LEVEL\] \]&#123;DATABASE\_AREA&#125; = START\_REPAIR\_DEFINITION&#123; REPAIR\_EQUIP\_REQD &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125; &#125;END\_REPAIR\_DEFINITION

&lt;!-- Page 18 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200513 \= START\_SURFACE\_DEFINITION\[SURFACE\_INSPECTION\] \[SURFACE\_QUALITY\_ID\]&#123; \[SURF\_INSP\_EQUIP\_REQD\] &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125; \[SURF\_INSP\_MODE\_REQD\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PIXEL\_SIZE\_REQD\]&#123;SURF\_DEFECT\_TYPESURF\_INSP\_SENSITIVITY\_REQD&#123; BIN\_SIZE SEVERITY\_CRITERION\_REQD &#125; &#125;\[SURF\_INSP\_SETUP\_FILE\_NAME\_REQD\] &#125;\[SURF\_INSP\_METHOD\] \[SURF\_INSP\_AREA\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_TOP\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_TOP\_ON\_CLEAR\_PATTERN\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_TOP\_ON\_OPAQUE\_PATTERN\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_TOP\_OUTSIDE\_FRAME\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_TOP\_OUTSIDE\_ON\_OPAQUE\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_TOP\_OUTSIDE\_MEMBRANE\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_TOP\_INSIDE\_MEMBRANE\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_TOP\_OUTSIDE\_ON\_FRAME\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_TOP\_INSIDE\_ON\_FRAME\]\[SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_BOTTOM\]\[SURF\_INSP\_GLASS\_SIDE\] \[SURF\_INSP\_PATTERN\_SIDE\]\[TRANSMISSION\_DEFECT\_CLEAR\] \[TRANSMISSION\_DEFECT\_DARK\]END\_SURFACE\_DEFINITION = &#123;START\_SEM\_PHOTO&#123; \[SEM\_PHOTO\_SITE\_ID\] \[SEM\_PHOTO\_LOCATION\] &#125;\[SEM\_PHOTO\_MATRIX\_FILENAME\]\[CD\_FEATURE\] \[CD\_LOCATION\_DRAWING\] \[CD\_DRAWING\]\[SEM\_PHOTO\_SCALE\]\[SEM\_PHOTO\_TILT\] \[SEM\_PHOTO\_ROTATION\]END\_SEM\_PHOTO &#125; = MASK\_ID \[MASK\_NAME\] DELIVERABLE\_MASK END\_MASK = CELL\_ID \[\] END\_CELL\_OPTIONS&#123;&#125; &#123;&#125; END\_CELL = PATTERN\_GROUP\_ID \[\]END\_PATTERN\_GROUP\_OPTIONS &#123;&#125;END\_PATTERN\_GROUP = LEVEL\_ID\[PATTERN\_NAME\] \[PATTERN\_VISUAL\_ID\] \[FIGURE\_COUNT\]\[MINIMUM\_FEATURE\_SIZE &#123;MINIMUM\_FEATURE\_LOCATION&#125; \]&#123;&#125;

&lt;!-- Page 19 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 14 \[OPTICAL\_MASK\_SET\_ID \[OPTICAL\_MASK\_ID\] \]\[OPTICAL\_MASK\_TITLE\]\[\]END\_PATTERN\_DEFINITION = CELL\_INSTANCE \[\]END\_CELL\_INSTANCE\_OPTIONS &#123;&#125;END\_CELL\_INSTANCE = PATTERN\_GROUP\_INSTANCE \[\]&#123;&#125;END\_PATTERN\_GROUP\_INSTANCE = START\_PLACEMENT &#123; LOCATION \[STEPPING\_DISTANCE STEPPING\_COUNT\] &#125;\[ARRAY\_DIAMETER ARRAY\_CENTER \[ARRAY\_DIAMETER\_INCLUSIVE\] \]\[DATA\_OFFSET\]&#123;DROPOUT \[SCRIBE\_TONE SCRIBE\_INSIDE\_CORNERSSCRIBE\_OUTSIDE\_CORNERS\] &#125;\[LOCATION\_SPEC\] \[CD\_MEASURE\_DIE\]END\_PLACEMENT = START\_PATTERN\_OPTIONS \[PATTERN\_FUNCTION\]\[DATA\_FILE\_SIZE\] \[DATA\_CHECKSUM DATA\_CHECKSUM\_TYPE \]\[PATTERN\_ADDRESS\_SIZE\] \[SCALE\_FACTOR\]\[DIGITIZED\_DATA\_DARK\]\[STRIPE\_HEIGHT\]\[UNSCALED\_PATTERN\_SIZE\]\[MFG\_BIAS\_PREAPPLIED\]&#123; LITHO\_MODE\_REQD &#125; \[VIRTUAL\_ADDRESS\]\[SURROUNDING\_TONE SURROUNDING\_WIDTH SURROUNDING\_HEIGHT\]\[MIRROR\_PATTERN\]\[\] \[PATTERN\_PLOT\_APPR\_REQD\]&#123;&#125;\[\]&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;\[PERCENT\_CLEAR\]\[INSPECT\_ALL\_SITES\]&#123;&#125;\[BUTTING\_ERROR\]\[ADDITIONAL\_PATTERN\_INFO\]

&lt;!-- Page 20 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200515 END\_PATTERN\_OPTIONS = START\_SHIPPABLE\_DATA\[SEND\_MASK\_SHIPPED\_DATE\_TIME \[\] \]\[SEND\_FINAL\_AUDIT\_DATE\_TIME \[\] \]\[SHIP\_CD\_DATA \[\] \]\[SHIP\_CD\_PRINTOUT \[\] \]\[SHIP\_CD\_UNIFORMITY\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_AIM\_DATA \[\] \]\[SHIP\_DEFECT\_DATA \[\] \]\[SHIP\_THRU\_PELLICLE\_DATA \[\] \]\[SHIP\_MANUAL\_INSPECTION\_FORM \[\] \]\[SHIP\_INSP\_DATABASE\_DATA \[INSP\_DATABASE\_DATA\_FORMAT\] \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FIRST\_PREPELL\_DIE\_DB\_MSK\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FIRST\_PREPELL\_DIE\_DB\_PTN\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FIRST\_PREPELL\_DIE\_DIE\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FIRST\_ROT\_PREPELL\_DIE\_DIE\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FINAL\_PREPELL\_DIE\_DB\_MSK\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FINAL\_PREPELL\_DIE\_DB\_PTN\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FINAL\_PREPELL\_DIE\_DIE\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FINAL\_ROT\_PREPELL\_DIE\_DIE\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FIRST\_POSTPELL\_DIE\_DB\_MSK\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FIRST\_POSTPELL\_DIE\_DB\_PTN\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FIRST\_POSTPELL\_DIE\_DIE\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FIRST\_ROT\_POSTPELL\_DIE\_DIE\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FINAL\_POSTPELL\_DIE\_DB\_MSK\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FINAL\_POSTPELL\_DIE\_DB\_PTN\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FINAL\_POSTPELL\_DIE\_DIE\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FINAL\_ROT\_POSTPELL\_DIE\_DIE\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_REPAIR\_DATA \[\] \]\[SHIP\_REGISTR\_DATA \[\] \]\[SHIP\_ARRAY\_REGISTR\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_CLOSURE\_DATA \[\] \]\[SHIP\_DIE\_FIT\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_MEASURE\_FILE\_REGISTR\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_FIELD\_FIT\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_CENTRALITY\_DATA \[\] \]\[SHIP\_CENTRALITY\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_SURF\_INSP\_MEASUREMENTS \[\] \]\[SHIP\_SURF\_INSPECTION\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_TOP\_MAP \[\] \]

&lt;!-- Page 21 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 16 \[SHIP\_SURF\_INSP\_PELL\_BOTTOM\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_SURF\_INSP\_GLASS\_SIDE\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_SURF\_INSP\_PATTERN\_SIDE\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_STARLIGHT\_MAP \[\] \]\[SHIP\_PHASE\_SHIFT\_MEASUREMENTS \[\] \]\[SHIP\_PHASE\_SHIFT\_REPORT \[\] \]\[SHIP\_SEM\_PHOTOS \[\] \]&#123;&#125;\[SHIP\_BARCODE\_PLOT \[\] \]&#123;&#125;\[SHIP\_CERTIFICATE\_OF\_CONFORMANCE \[\] \]&#123;SHIP\_CUSTOMER\_QUALITY\_FORM \[\] &#125;\[SHIP\_TRAVELER \[\] \]\[PERCENT\_CLEAR\_REQUESTED \[\] \]&#123;SHIP\_SPECIAL\_REQUEST \[\] &#125;END\_SHIPPABLE\_DATA = START\_SHIP\_TO&#123;EMAIL\_ADDRESS&#125; \[\] \[WEB\_ADDRESS\]&#123;MAILING\_ADDRESS&#125; \[SHIP\_TO\_FAX\]\[DUE\_DATE\_TIME\_REQUESTED\]END\_SHIP\_TO = FTP\_HOST\_NAME \[FTP\_LOGIN\] \[FTP\_PASSWORD\] \[FTP\_DIRECTORY\]\[FTP\_MODE\] END\_FTP\_HOST 7.5 Mask Results Data Structure Syntax  The following syntax definition uses the upper case keyword torepresent the permissible applications of the corresponding data record within the mask results data structure. Thisstructure allows the vendor to deliver to the customer actual data regarding masks being built. \= START\_MASK\_RESULTS SEMI\_REVISION CUSTOMER VENDORFILE\_DATE\_TIME \[OPERATOR\_NAME\]MASK\_SET\_ID \[ \]ORDER\_ID MASK\_SET\_NAME MASK\_SET\_VERSION&#123;MASK\_GROUP\_ID \[ \]&#123;MASK\_ID END\_MASK&#125;END\_MASK\_GROUP&#125;END\_MASK\_SETEND\_MASK\_RESULTSCHECKSUM = START\_MASK\_RESULTS\_OPTIONS\[STATUS\]

&lt;!-- Page 22 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200517 \[ \]\[\]\[\]&#123;MFG\_SITE\_REQD&#125; \[MFG\_SITE\_USED\]\[PRODUCT\_TYPE\] \[PRODUCT\_MAGNIFICATION\]\[MASK\_NAME\]&#123; TITLE\_TEXT \[TITLE\_TYPE\] &#125;\[DUE\_DATE\_TIME\_COMMITTED\] \[ELAPSED\_TIME\_COMMITTED\]\[MILESTONE \[ADDITIONAL\_MILESTONE\_INFO\] \]\[PERIODIC\_UPDATE \[ADDITIONAL\_MILESTONE\_INFO\] \]\[ESTIMATED\_ARRIVAL \[ADDITIONAL\_MILESTONE\_INFO\] \]\[MASK\_SHIPPED\_DATE\_TIME\]\[FINAL\_AUDIT\_DATE\_TIME\]\[DESIGN\_RULE\]\[ \]\[FAB\_TECHNOLOGY\] \[WAFER\_FAB\]\[JOB\_ONLY\_APPROVED\] \[JOB\_WITH\_PATTERNS\_APPROVED\]&#123;PATTERN\_APPROVED&#125; \[ALL\_PATTERNS\_APPROVED\]\[APPROVAL\_GRANTED\]\[MIRROR\_MASK\] \[MASK\_ROTATION\]\[CUSTOMER\_SPEC CUSTOMER\_SPEC\_REVISION\]&#123;WAIVER&#125; &#123;WAIVER\_OVERRIDE&#125;&#123; \[BARCODE\_TYPE\] BARCODE\_TEXT BARCODE\_ROTATION &#125;\[SHIPPING\_METHOD\_USED\]\[MEASURED\_PERCENT\_CLEAR\]\[CENTRALITY\] \[MEASURED\_CENTRALITY\]&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;\[\]&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;\[THROUGH\_PELLICLE\_DEFECTS &#123;&#125; \]&#123;&#125;\[QUALITY\_GROUP\_ID\]

&lt;!-- Page 23 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 18 \[FINAL\_QC\_AUDITOR\]&#123;ADDITIONAL\_RESULTS\_INFO&#125;END\_MASK\_RESULTS\_OPTIONS = START\_VENDOR\_INFO\[VENDOR\_CONTACT\] \[VENDOR\_PHONE\] &#123;VENDOR\_ADDRESS&#125;\[VENDOR\_FAX\] \[VENDOR\_EMAIL\]\[FINAL\_QC\_AUDITOR\]\[VENDOR\_ORDER\_ID\]END \_VENDOR\_INFO = START\_BILLING\_INFORMATION\[BLANKET\_PO\_NUMBER\] \[PO\_NUMBER\] \[SO\_NUMBER\] \[RELEASE\_NUMBER\]END\_BILLING\_INFORMATION = START\_MATERIALS\_USED\[TOP\_PELLICLE\_USED\] \[BOTTOM\_PELLICLE\_USED\]\[PACKAGE\_USED\]\[\] END\_MATERIALS\_USED = START\_SUBSTRATEBLANK\_LENGTH \[BLANK\_WIDTH\] BLANK\_THICKNESSBLANK\_TYPE \[BLANK\_GRADE\]\[BLANK\_FLATNESS\] \[BLANK\_FLATNESS\_USED\] \[BLANK\_VENDOR\]\[BLANK\_BIREFRINGENCE\_REQD\] \[BLANK\_BIREFRINGENCE\_USED\]&#123;&#125;\[BLANK\_INDEX\_OF\_REFRACTION\]\[BLANK\_LOT\] \[BLANK\_DATE\_OF\_MFG\]\[\] END\_SUBSTRATE = START\_COATINGCOATING\_TYPE \[COATING\_COMPOSITION\] \[COATING\_THICKNESS\]\[COATING\_REFLECTANCE\] \[COATING\_TRANSMITTANCE\]\[COATING\_WAVELENGTH\] \[COATING\_GRADE\]\[COATING\_PHASE\] \[COATING\_OPTICAL\_DENSITY\]\[COATING\_LOT\_NUMBER\] \[COATING\_DATE\_TIME\]\[COATING\_MASK\_VENDOR\_APPLIED\] \[COATING\_EQUIP\_USED\]END\_COATING = START\_EUV\_BLANK\_TYPEEUV\_BLANK\_TYPEEUV\_FLATNESS\_FRONTEUV\_FLATNESS\_BACKEUV\_MULTILAYER\_COMPOSITIONEUV\_CAPPING\_COMPOSITION

&lt;!-- Page 24 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200519 EUV\_MMR\_WAVELENGTHEUV\_MEAN\_PEAK\_REFLECTIVITYEUV\_PEAK\_REFLECTIVITY\_UNIFORMITYEUV\_ABSORBER\_COMPOSITIONEUV\_ABSORBER\_OPTICAL\_PROPERTIESEUV\_BLANK\_RESISTANCEEUV\_EXPANSION\_COEFFEND\_EUV\_BLANK\_TYPE = START\_WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_DATAWAFER\_EXPOSURE\_NUMERICAL\_APERATURE\[WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_SIGMA\]\[WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_SIGMA\_INNER WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_SIGMA\_OUTER\]WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_ILLUMINATIONEND\_WAFER\_EXPOSURE\_DATA = START\_AERIAL\_IMAGE\_DATAAIM\_WAVELENGTH\[AIM\_INTENSITY\_VARIATION\_DELTA\]\[AIM\_FLUX\_INTENSITY\_DELTA\]\[AIM\_CD\_DELTA\]END\_AERIAL\_IMAGE\_DATA = START\_LITHO\_INFORMATION&#123; \[LITHO\_EQUIP\_REQD\] &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125;&#123; \[LITHO\_MODEL\_REQD\] &#123;LITHO\_MODE\_REQD&#125; &#125; &#125;\[LITHO\_EQUIP\_USED\] \[EQUIP\_SITE\_USED\]\[LITHO\_MODEL\_USED\] \[LITHO\_MODE\_USED\]\[MACHINE\_SERIAL\_NUMBER\]\[MASK\_SERIAL\_NUMBER\]\[PROCESS\]\[WRITE\_DATE\_TIME\] \[ELAPSED\_WRITE\_TIME\]\[OPERATOR\]END\_LITHO\_INFORMATION = START\_PATTERN\_GROUP\_RESULTSPATTERN\_GROUP\_ID&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;&#123;&#125;

&lt;!-- Page 25 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 20 &#123;&#125;END\_PATTERN\_GROUP\_RESULTS = START\_PHASE\_SHIFT\_MEASUREMENTSPSM\_WAVELENGTH\[PHASE\_SHIFT\_QUALITY\_ID\]\[ START\_TRANSMISSION\_MEASUREMENTS\[TRANSMISSION\_MEASUREMENT\_DATE\]\[TRANSMISSION\_EQUIP\_USED\]\[TRANSMISSION\_MODE\_USED\]\[TRANSMISSION\_MEASUREMENT\_FILE\_NAME\]TRANSMISSION\_TARGET\[TRANSMISSION\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[TRANSMISSION\_TOLERANCE\]\[TRANSMISSION\_RANGE\]\[TRANSMISSION\_ERROR\]\[MEASURED\_TRANSMISSION\_AVERAGE\]\[MEASURED\_TRANSMISSION\_TOLERANCE\]\[MEASURED\_TRANSMISSION\_RANGE\]\[TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_FEATURE\]\[TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_LOCATION\_DRAWING\]\[TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_DRAWING\]&#123;MEASURED\_TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_SITE\_ID\[ TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_LOCATION \]MEASURED\_TRANSMISSION\_MARK\_LOCATIONMEASURED\_TRANSMISSION\[MEASURED\_TRANSMISSION\_ERROR\]END\_MEASURED\_TRANSMISSION\_SITE &#125;END\_TRANSMISSION\_MEASUREMENTS \]\[ START\_PHASE\_ANGLE\_MEASUREMENTS\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_MEASUREMENT\_DATE\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_EQUIP\_USED\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_MODE\_USED\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_MEASUREMENT\_FILE\_NAME\]PHASE\_ANGLE\_TARGET\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_TOLERANCE\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_RANGE\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_ERROR\]\[MEASURED\_PHASE\_ANGLE\_AVERAGE\]\[MEASURED\_PHASE\_ANGLE\_TOLERANCE\]

&lt;!-- Page 26 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200521 \[MEASURED\_PHASE\_ANGLE\_RANGE\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_MARK\_FEATURE\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_MARK\_LOCATION\_DRAWING\]\[PHASE\_ANGLE\_MARK\_DRAWING\]&#123;MEASURED\_PHASE\_ANGLE\_MARK\_SITE\_ID\[ PHASE\_ANGLE\_MARK\_LOCATION \]MEASURED\_PHASE\_ANGLE\_MARK\_LOCATIONMEASURED\_PHASE\_ANGLE\[MEASURED\_PHASE\_ANGLE\_ERROR\]END\_MEASURED\_PHASE\_ANGLE\_SITE &#125;END\_PHASE\_ANGLE\_MEASUREMENTS \]\[ START\_ETCH\_DEPTH\_MEASUREMENTS\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_MEASUREMENT\_DATE\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_EQUIP\_USED\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_MODE\_USED\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_MEASUREMENT\_FILE\_NAME\]ETCH\_DEPTH\_TARGET\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_TOLERANCE\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_RANGE\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_ERROR\]\[MEASURED\_ETCH\_DEPTH\_AVERAGE\]\[MEASURED\_ETCH\_DEPTH\_TOLERANCE\]\[MEASURED\_ETCH\_DEPTH\_RANGE\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_MARK\_FEATURE\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_MARK\_LOCATION\_DRAWING\]\[ETCH\_DEPTH\_MARK\_DRAWING\]&#123;MEASURED\_ETCH\_DEPTH\_MARK\_SITE\_ID\[ ETCH\_DEPTH\_MARK\_LOCATION \]MEASURED\_ETCH\_DEPTH\_MARK\_LOCATIONMEASURED\_ETCH\_DEPTH\[MEASURED\_ETCH\_DEPTH\_ERROR\]END\_MEASURED\_ETCH\_DEPTH\_SITE &#125;END\_ETCH\_DEPTH\_MEASUREMENTS \]\[OPERATOR\]END\_PHASE\_SHIFT\_MEASUREMENTS = START\_REGISTR\_MEASUREMENTS\[REGISTR\_QUALITY\_ID\]&#123;REGISTR\_EQUIP\_REQD&#125; &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125; &#123;REGISTR\_REF\_METHOD\_REQD&#125;\[REGISTR\_STD\_GRID\] \[REGISTR\_ALGORITHM\]

&lt;!-- Page 27 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 22 \[REGISTR\_COMPENSATION\_TEMPERATURE\]\[REGISTR\_EQUIP\_USED\] \[EQUIP\_SITE\_USED\] \[REGISTR\_REF\_METHOD\_USED\]\[REGISTR\_STD\_GRID\_USED\] \[REGISTR\_ALGORITHM\_USED\]\[REGISTR\_MEASUREMENT\_DATE\]\[REGISTR\_REF\_MASK\_ID REGISTR\_REF\_MASK\_SET\_ID\]\[REGISTR\_ERROR\] \[REGISTR\_SCALE \[REGISTR\_SCALE\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]\[REGISTR\_RESIDUAL \[REGISTR\_RESIDUAL\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]\[REGISTR\_THREE\_SIGMA \[REGISTR\_THREE\_SIGMA\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]\[REGISTR\_RESIDUAL\_THREE\_SIGMA\[REGISTR\_RESIDUAL\_THREE\_SIGMA\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]\[REGISTR\_TOLERANCE\]\[REGISTR\_ORTHO \[REGISTR\_ORTHO\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]\[REGISTR\_RELATIVE \[REGISTR\_RELATIVE\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\] \]&#123;&#125;\[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_ERROR\] \[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_SCALE\]\[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_THREE\_SIGMA\]\[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_RESIDUAL\]\[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_RESIDUAL\_THREE\_SIGMA\]\[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_TOLERANCE\]\[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_MINIMUM\] \[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_MAXIMUM\]\[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_ORTHO\] \[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_RELATIVE\]\[MEASURED\_REGISTR\_FILE\_NAME\]\[OPERATOR\]END\_REGISTR\_MEASUREMENTS = START\_MEASURED\_REGISTR\_MARKMEASURED\_REGISTR\_MARK\_ID\[ VENDOR\_REGIGISTRATION\_MARK\_ID \]\[ MASK\_REGISTR\_MARK\_LOCATION \]MEASURED\_REGISTR\_MARK\_LOCATION\[ MEASURED\_REGISTR\_MARK\_ERROR \]\[ MEASURED\_REGISTR\_MARK\_RESIDUAL \]END\_MEASURED\_REGISTR\_MARK = START\_CLOSURE\_MEASUREMENTS&#123;REGISTR\_CLOSURE\_EQUIP\_REQD&#125; &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125;\[REGISTR\_CLOSURE\_EQUIP\_USED\] \[EQUIP\_SITE\_USED\]\[REGISTR\_CLOSURE\]\[REGISTR\_CLOSURE\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]MEASURED\_REGISTR\_CLOSURE&#123; MEASURED\_CLOSURE\_READING \[MEASURED\_CLOSURE\_LOCATION\] &#125;\[OPERATOR\]

&lt;!-- Page 28 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200523 END\_CLOSURE\_MEASUREMENTS = START\_CD\_GROUP\_MEASUREMENTS\[CD\_QUALITY\_ID\]\[CD\_TONE\_CLEAR\]\[CD\_MORPHOGRAPHY\]\[CD\_PERCENT\_CLEAR\] \[CD\_PERCENT\_CLEAR\_WINDOW\]\[CD\_TARGET\]\[CD\_ORIENTATION\]\[CD\_PITCH\]\[CD\_FEATURE\]\[CD\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[CD\_TOLERANCE\]\[CD\_RANGE\] \[CD\_THREE\_SIGMA\]\[CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_TARGET\]\[CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_MEAN\]\[CD\_STD\] \[CD\_CORRELATION\_ID\]&#123;CD\_EQUIP\_REQD&#125; &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125;\[CD\_EQUIP\_USED\] \[EQUIP\_SITE\_USED\]\[CD\_MEASUREMENT\_DATE\]\[NUMBER\_OF\_CDS\]&#123;&#125;\[MEASURED\_CD\_MEAN\] \[MEASURED\_CD\_MIN\] \[MEASURED\_CD\_MAX\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_TOLERANCE\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_RANGE\] \[MEASURED\_CD\_THREE\_SIGMA\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_TARGET\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_MEAN\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_FILE\_NAME\]\[OPERATOR\]END\_CD\_GROUP\_MEASUREMENTS = START\_CD\_MEASUREMENT\[ \[CD\_SITE\_ID\] CD\_LOCATION \]MEASURED\_CD\_SITE\_IDMEASURED\_CD\_LOCATIONMEASURED\_CDEND\_CD\_MEASUREMENT = START\_CD\_SET\_RESULTS&#123;CD\_GROUP\_NAME&#125;\[CD\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[CD\_QUALITY\_ID\]\[CD\_TOLERANCE\] \[CD\_RANGE\] \[CD\_THREE\_SIGMA\]

&lt;!-- Page 29 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 24 \[CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_TARGET\] \[CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_MEAN\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_MEAN\] \[MEASURED\_CD\_MIN\] \[MEASURED\_CD\_MAX\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_TOLERANCE\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_RANGE\] \[MEASURED\_CD\_THREE\_SIGMA\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_TARGET\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_DEVIATION\_FROM\_MEAN\]END\_CD\_SET\_RESULTS = START\_CD\_XY\_RESULTS&#123;CD\_X\_GROUP&#125; &#123;CD\_Y\_GROUP&#125;&#123;&#125;\[CD\_XY\_TOLERANCE\] \[CD\_XY\_DEVIATION\] \[CD\_XY\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_XY\_TOLERANCE\] \[MEASURED\_CD\_XY\_DEVIATION\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_XY\_MORPHOGRAPHY\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_XY\_TONE\_CLEAR\]END\_CD\_XY\_RESULTS = START\_CD\_XY\_SITE\[ CD\_HORIZONTAL\_ID CD\_HORIZONTAL\_LOCATION \]\[CD\_HORIZONTAL\_MORPHOGRAPHY\] \[CD\_HORIZONTAL\_TONE\_CLEAR\]MEASURED\_HORIZONTAL\_CD\[ CD\_VERTICAL\_ID CD\_VERTICAL\_LOCATION \]\[CD\_VERTICAL\_MORPHOGRAPHY\] \[CD\_VERTICAL\_TONE\_CLEAR\]MEASURED\_VERTICAL\_CDEND\_CD\_XY\_SITE = START\_CD\_ISO\_DENSE\_RESULTS&#123;CD\_ISO\_GROUP&#125; &#123;CD\_DENSE\_GROUP&#125;\[CD\_ISO\_DENSE\_TOLERANCE\]\[CD\_ISO\_DENSE\_REFERENCE\_ONLY\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_ISO\_MEAN\] \[MEASURED\_CD\_ISO\_RANGE\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_DENSE\_MEAN\] \[MEASURED\_CD\_DENSE\_RANGE\]\[MEASURED\_CD\_ISO\_DENSE\_TOLERANCE\]END\_CD\_ISO\_DENSE\_RESULTS = START\_DEFECT\_MEASUREMENTS\[DEFECT\_QUALITY\_ID\]&#123;INSPECTION\_AREA&#125; &#123;INSPECTION\_AREA\_EXCLUDE&#125;&#123;VISUAL\_INSP\_CRITERIA&#125;DIE\_TO\_DIE\_INSPECTIONDIE\_TO\_DIE\_MEASUREMENTS&#123;DEFECT\_EQUIP\_REQD &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125;\[DEFECT\_INSP\_MODE\_REQD\] \[DEFECT\_INSP\_PIXEL\_SIZE\_REQD\]&#123;DEFECT\_TYPE DEFECT\_INSP\_SENSITIVITY\_REQD

&lt;!-- Page 30 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200525 &#123;BIN\_SIZE SEVERITY\_CRITERION\_REQD &#125; &#125;\[DEFECT\_SETUP\_FILE\_NAME\_REQD\] &#125;\[DEFECT\_EQUIP\_USED \[EQUIP\_SITE\_USED\]\[DEFECT\_INSP\_MODE\_USED\] \[DEFECT\_INSP\_PIXEL\_SIZE\_USED\]&#123;DEFECT\_TYPE DEFECT\_INSP\_SENSITIVITY\_USED&#123;BIN\_SIZE SEVERITY\_CRITERION\_USED &#125; &#125;\[DEFECT\_SETUP\_FILENAME\_USED \] \]\[DEFECT\_INSP\_DATE\]&#123;REPAIR\_EQUIP\_REQD &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125; &#125;\[REPAIR\_EQUIP\_USED \[EQUIP\_SITE\_USED\] \]&#123;MEASURED\_INSPECTION\_AREA&#125; &#123;MEASURED\_INSPECTION\_AREA\_EXCLUDE&#125;\[MEASURED\_DEFECT\_DENSITY\]\[MEASURED\_DEFECT\_COUNT\]\[MEASURED\_DEFECT\_COUNT\_REP\]\[MEASURED\_DEFECT\_COUNT\_WITHIN\_SPEC\]\[MEASURED\_DEFECTIVE\_DIE\_DENSITY\]\[MEASURED\_DEFECTIVE\_DIE\_COUNT\]\[MEASURED\_DEFECTIVE\_DIE\_COUNT\_REP\]\[MEASURED\_PERCENT\_DEFECTIVE\_DIE\]&#123;MEASURED\_DEFECT\_FILE\_NAME&#125;\[PRE\_PELL\_INSPECTION\_ID\] \[PRE\_PELL\_INSPECTION\_DATE\_AND\_TIME\]\[POST\_PELL\_INSPECTION\_ID\] \[POST\_PELL\_INSPECTION\_DATE\_AND\_TIME\]\[OPERATOR\]END\_DEFECT\_MEASUREMENTS = START\_SURFACE\_INSP\_MEASUREMENTS\[SURFACE\_QUALITY\_ID\]&#123;SURF\_INSP\_EQUIP\_REQD &#123;EQUIP\_SITE\_REQD&#125;\[SURF\_INSP\_MODE\_REQD\] \[SURF\_INSP\_PIXEL\_SIZE\_REQD\]&#123;SURF\_DEFECT\_TYPE SURF\_INSP\_SENSITIVITY\_REQD&#123;BIN\_SIZE SEVERITY\_CRITERION\_REQD &#125; &#125;\[SURF\_INSP\_SETUP\_FILE\_NAME\_REQD\] &#125;\[SURF\_INSP\_EQUIP\_USED \[EQUIP\_SITE\_USED\]\[SURF\_INSP\_MODE\_USED\] \[SURF\_INSP\_PIXEL\_SIZE\_USED\]&#123;SURF\_DEFECT\_TYPE SURF\_INSP\_SENSITIVITY\_USED&#123; BIN\_SIZE SEVERITY\_CRITERION\_USED &#125; &#125;\[SURF\_INSP\_SETUP\_FILE\_NAME\_USED \] \]\[MEASURED\_DEFECT\_COUNT\]\[MEASURED\_DEFECT\_COUNT\_WITHIN\_SPEC\]&#123;MEASURED\_SURF\_INSP\_FILE\_NAME&#125;

&lt;!-- Page 31 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 26 \[PRE\_PELL\_INSPECTION\_ID\] \[PRE\_PELL\_INSPECTION\_DATE\_AND\_TIME\]\[POST\_PELL\_INSPECTION\_ID\] \[POST\_PELL\_INSPECTION\_DATE\_AND\_TIME\]\[OPERATOR\]END\_SURFACE\_INSP\_MEASUREMENTS 7.6 Mask Order Data Structure Syntax in Extensible Markup Language (XML) Format  The following filedefines the Mask Order Data Structure Syntax (above) in Extensible Markup Language Schema Definition (XSD)format. Should the user choose to implement the mask order data file in Extensible Markup Language (XML), thefile must validate against this XSD. For optimal viewing, paste the text into a program designed to read XML suchas an internet browser. The content of both versions of representation of mask order data should be entirelyequivalent. Since the XML schema is derived directly from the Mask Order Data Structure Syntax, in the event of adiscrepancy between the two, the Data Structure Syntax should be considered to be the more correct. 2005 SEMI. All rights reserved.SEMI P10 MaskOrder01-05-200501-05-2005

&lt;!-- Page 32 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200527

&lt;!-- Page 33 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 28

&lt;!-- Page 34 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200529

&lt;!-- Page 35 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 30

&lt;!-- Page 36 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200531

&lt;!-- Page 37 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 32

&lt;!-- Page 38 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200533

&lt;!-- Page 39 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 34

&lt;!-- Page 40 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200535

&lt;!-- Page 41 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 36

&lt;!-- Page 42 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200537

&lt;!-- Page 43 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 38

&lt;!-- Page 44 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200539

&lt;!-- Page 45 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 40

&lt;!-- Page 46 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200541

&lt;!-- Page 47 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 42

&lt;!-- Page 48 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200543

&lt;!-- Page 49 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 2005 44

&lt;!-- Page 50 --&gt;

SEMI P10-0705 © SEMI 1990, 200545