---
title: "E81-0600 - © 1999, 200038 Table..."
description: "SEMI标准文档"
sidebar_label: "E81-0600 - © 1999, 200038 Table..."
sidebar_position: 47
tags: ['SEMI', 'Standard']
custom_props:
  source_type: 'pdf'
  source_file: 'semi-chapter-047.pdf'
  chapter: 47
  page_count: 50
---

import PdfDownloadCard from '@site/src/components/PdfDownloadCard';

<PdfDownloadCard
  pdfLink="/pdfs/semi/047.pdf"
  pdfSize="N/A"
  title="E81-0600 - © 1999, 200038 Table..."
  description="SEMI标准文档，共50页"
/>



&lt;!-- Page 1 --&gt;

SEMI E81-0600 © 1999, 2000 38 Table 1 Object State Definitions and Query Table Example State Definition Query for State ViaENGINE RUNNING In this state, the automobile's engine is running. boolean isEngineRunning ( );sent to instance of Automobile.Returns true. Table 2 Object State Transition Table Example Current State Trigger New State ActionENGINE STOPPED turn ignition key to right ENGINE RUNNING tachometer indicates positive RPMENGINE RUNNING turn ignition key to left ENGINE STOPPED tachometer indicates zero RPMLIGHTS OFF turn light switch on LIGHTS ON driving at night is enabledLIGHTS ON turn light switch off LIGHTS OFF driving at night disabled 7.4.4 Textual Specification Languag e7.4.4.1 The textual notations used to s pecify theframework in this specification, include the following: Interface Definition Language (IDL). Interface Definition Format.7.4.4.2 Interface Definition Language (IDL)7.4.4.2.1 Specifications of CIM Frameworkcomponents are composed mainly of interfaces. Thespecifics of each interface, while also represented in theUML-based Component Information Model, arerigorously specified using OMG IDL. The IDL for CIMFramework interfaces shall be complete and consistentas verified by automated IDL compilers. The IDLportion of SEMI specifications will be available in atext file format to facilitate such validation and use withIDL compiler technologies.7.4.4.2.2 This explanation of IDL is add ressed to itsuse as a rigorous specification tool. The considerationsof mapping the specifications to an implementationinfrastructure are addressed in SEMI E96.7.4.4.2.3 Common Object Broker Archit ecture(CORBA) \[CORBA\]\[CIMArch\] defines the architecturewhich enables and regulates interoperability betweenobjects and applications across heterogeneouslanguages and computer boundaries. In all ObjectManagement Group (OMG) specifications, services aredefined as object interfaces expressed in the OMG'sIDL. CORBA standards define IDL and its mapping toimplementation languages (for example, C, C++,Smalltalk, and Java).7.4.4.2.4 IDL is a compilable language t hat describesthe operations that are specified for an interface. Thenotation is independent of the language in which themethods that implement an interfaces operations are written. This goal is achieved by mapping between theIDL syntax and whatever language is used to implementclient and server objects. Because IDL is designedpurely for interface specification, it omits the flowcontrol and operator constructs of an implementationlanguage. Object classes can implement an interfacedifferently as long as their behavior conforms to theinterface specification.7.4.4.2.5 IDL obeys the same lexical rul es as C, whileintroducing a number of keywords specific to adistributed system. As IDL is mapped to object-orientedlanguages, new constructs will appear. A briefdiscourse on some of the keywords and concepts usedin this specification follows. In the examples, words initalics are user supplied, others are IDL-definedkeywords.7.4.4.3 Interface Specification Forma t7.4.4.3.1 The OMG defines an objects interface as alisting of the operations and attributes that an objectprovides. This includes the signatures of the operations,and the types of the attributes. An interfacespecification ideally includes the semantics as well\[OMA\]. The CIM Framework Specification buildsupon this definition to provide additional semanticinformation for an interface. These semantics arecaptured in an interface description. This sectiondescribes the format of an interface. Each description ofan interface follows this format. The format includesthe following: Name  The capitalized noun following the wordInterface: Inherited Interface  The capitalized noun afterthe words Inherited Interface: Description  A definition of the interface givingits form and function.

&lt;!-- Page 2 --&gt;

SEMI E81-0600 © 1999, 200039  Exceptions  An IDL specification for reportinguser-defined, framework-related error conditions. Published Events  The name of the eventstructure that must be placed on an event channel.The event structure identifies the event through asubject field. The subject is composed of thecomponent and interface issuing the event and datadescribing the event, and filterable and non-filterable information. Events are defined at theinterface level; neither posting services norsubscribers are identified. Thus, events are not tiedto specific services and may be the result of aninternal (to the component) computation. Provided Services  A list of publicly availableservices provided by this interface. In other words,a list of non-private, named operations. Each isgiven by a description in comment form (i.e.,/\*....\*/) followed by its representation in the IDLsyntax. Contracted Services  A table of frameworkservices provided by other interfaces that are beingused by public and/or private services in thisinterface. These methods must be available in orderfor the documented interface to provide itsdescribed services. Changes to contracted servicesmay result in changes to the behavior of theinterface making use of these services. State Model  See Section 7.4.3.5 for details.7.4.4.3.2 If no Provided Services are de fined for aparticular category, then No public interfaces willappear after the category identifier. If no Exceptions,Published Events, Contracted Services, or DynamicModel are provided, then the word None will appear.State Transition Tables occur only in conjunction withDynamic Models.7.4.4.4 Interface Specification Examp le7.4.4.4.1 Table 3 provides a complete il lustration ofIDL and CIM Framework interface specification formatusage within this specification. Words in italics areuser-supplied, others are either IDL or CIMFramework-defined keywords. 8 Conformance to CIM Fram ework DomainSpecifications8.1 The objective of the CIM Fram ework is to speedthe creation, use and improvement of a manufacturingexecution system for a semiconductor wafer fabricationfactory by enabling the integration of disparatecomponents into a cohesive system. The CIMFramework achieves this objective by specifying adomain model for MES components. MES componentsuppliers use the specification to help establish theboundaries and interfaces of their components.Component customers first use the specification toassess the capabilities of individual components andthen to facilitate the integration of components into aworking system.8.2 The CIM Framework increase s the value of theMES components by enhancing their qualities ofinteroperability, substitutability and extensibility. Interoperability is the ability of components towork together through compatible interfaces. Substitutability implies the option to swap onecomponent with another because they support thesame interfaces. Extensibility means the planned capability to addfunctionality to a component, again by leveragingthe support for predefined interface specifications.8.3 Given both the scope and obje ctives of the CIMFramework, conformance to the Framework can not bereduced to a simple yes or no proposition. Rather,component customers must assess componentconformance on a case-by-case basis. Potential buyersassess conformance in terms of how well a componentsupplier demonstrates use of the CIM Frameworkspecification to enable rapid component integration.8.4 With this background, here the n are factors forconsumers to consider in assessing MES componentsand for suppliers to comprehend when buildingcomponents. These factors form the basis forcommunication between buyers and sellers ofcomponents regarding conformance to the CIMFramework specifications.

&lt;!-- Page 3 --&gt;

SEMI E81-0600 © 1999, 2000 40 Table 3 Interface Specification Example/\* Comments are set between slashes and asterisks \*/Interface: FrameworkObject2Inherited Interface: FrameworkObject1Description: The example defines the interface for FrameworkObject2, which inherits from FrameworkObject1.Exceptions:/\* The following portrays the syntax used to describe exceptions for this interface. ObjectType and instanceName specify anobject instance (supplementary information) returned with the exception. \*/exception ExceptionName &#123; ObjectType instanceName &#125;;Published Events: NamedEventProvided Services:/\* The following defines the read/write methods for AttributeName1. \*/ObjectType getAttributeName1 ( );void setAttributeName1 (in ObjectType parameterName);/\* The following defines a method for readonly AttributeName2 \*/ObjectType getAttributeName2 ( );/\* The following says operationName1 is a local operation returning an object of the class ObjectTypeReturned. \*/ObjectTypeReturned operationName1 ( );/\* The following says operationName2 is a local operation returning an object of the class ObjectTypeReturned with anargument instanceName of the object type ObjectType. In addition, there is an operation-specific exception, E, that may beraised by this operation. \*/ObjectTypeReturned operationName2 (in ObjectType instanceName)raises (E);The type definitions follow the following format:/\* Type Declarations: \*//\* The following specifies (types) the ObjectType for the named datatype. \*/typedef ObjectType datatype ;/\* The following specifies a sequence (collection) of ObjectType for ObjectTypeSequence. \*/typedef sequence ObjectTypeSequence ;  CIM Framework component packaging:Component suppliers must explain how theircomponent is packaged relative to thecorresponding CIM Framework component(s).Note, however, that suppliers may choose toprovide multiple CIM Framework components asan integrated package. In this case the completepackage can be assessed relative to thecombination of services provided by the combinedset of CIM Framework components. Obviously, aconsumer must also assess the benefits of theintegrated component relative to the reduction inthe ability to substitute components within theintegrated package. CIM Framework objects and interfaces:Component suppliers must describe how their objects and methods support the CIM Frameworkcomponent interfaces. This includes describing theobject methods available in comparison to theinterfaces specified in the CIM Framework. Notethat this interface specification questionencompasses specific operations, the operationsarguments, the exceptions returned, and the eventspublished. Object behavior: Component suppliers mustdocument object behavior so componentconsumers can understand the purpose andconsequences of specific methods. The CIMFramework specifies behavioral semantics forcomponents using a variety of representations suchas state models, information models showingrelationships, interaction models, and text-based

&lt;!-- Page 4 --&gt;

SEMI E81-0600 © 1999, 200041 comments. Component suppliers need to explainhow their objects conform to the CIM Frameworkbehavioral semantics.8.5 As these factors indicate, asses sing the CIMFramework conformance of supplied components takesmore than just verifying the existence of specificobjects and methods. The key issue is whether acomponent supplier provides both the software and itsassociated conformance information needed to enablethe use and integration of the component. 9 Related Documents9.1 The following documents desc ribe programs,standards, and guidelines used in the development ofthe CIM Framework specification.9.1.1 SEMATECH DocumentsAdvanced Process Control Framework Initiative(APCFI) 1.0,6/27/97 (SEMATECH - TechnologyTransfer #97063300A-ENG):CIM FrameworkEnhanced Machine Component CommunicationsDriver (MCCD) Final Report (SEMATECH -Technology Transfer #97073323A-TR).C++ Reference Implementation for the ComputerIntegrated Manufacturing (CIM) ApplicationFramework: Release 2, 1/4/96 (SEMATECH -Technology Transfer #95082944B-ENG).Computer Integrated Manufacturing (CIM) ApplicationFramework Validation Project: Lessons LearnedDuring the Automation Software Systems Project(SEMATECH - Technology Transfer #94102568A-ENG).Computer Integrated Manufacturing (CIM)Development Manual 1.1 - Volumes 1 and 2(SEMATECH - Technology Transfer #91120794B-ENG).Computer Integrated Manufacturing (CIM) FrameworkMember Validation Project (FMVP): Phase II FinalReport (SEMATECH - Technology Transfer#96013061A-TR).Evolution of WorkStream for Preventive, PredictiveMaintenance (PM) at SEMATECH (SEMATECH -Technology Transfer #95092966A-TR).Real-Time Dispatcher (RTD) Computer IntegratedManufacturing (CIM) Framework Conformance andIntegration Studies (SEMATECH - TechnologyTransfer #96023088A-ENG).Results of the AutoSimulations and TI/WORKSIntegration Feasibility Study (SEMATECH -Technology Transfer #95092981A-ENG). SEMATECH Workbench for Integrated Modeling(SWIM) Enhanced Prototype Functional Specification5.0, 12/2/93 (SEMATECH - Technology Transfer#93112072A-ENG).Semiconductor Generic Manufacturing Model.(SEMATECH - Technology Transfer #91090704A-ENG).Semiconductor Generic Manufacturing RequirementsSpecification (SEMATECH - Technology Transfer#91090703A-ENG).Strategic Cell Controller (SCC) Program RepositoryContents Guide 1.1 SEMATECH Factory IntegrationTechnologies (FIT) Project (SEMATECH - TechnologyTransfer #93091827B-XFR).Strategic Computer Integrated Manufacturing (CIM)Computing Environment Specifications. (SEMATECH- Technology Transfer #92010916A-ENG)Technical Summary of CIM Framework-BasedIntegration of ASI Real-Time Dispatcher and IBMLegacy Systems (SEMATECH - Technology Transfer#96093180A-TR). NOTICE: SEMI makes no warranties or representa-tions as to the suitability of the specification set forthherein for any particular application. The determinationof the suitability of the specification is solely theresponsibility of the user. Users are cautioned to referto manufacturers instructions, product labels, productdata sheets, and other relevant literature respecting anymaterials mentioned herein. These specifications aresubject to change without notice.The users attention is called to the possibility thatcompliance with this specification may require use ofcopyrighted material or of an invention covered bypatent rights. By publication of this specification,SEMI takes no position respecting the validity of anypatent rights or copyrights asserted in connection withany item mentioned in this specification. Users of thisspecification are expressly advised that determinationof any such patent rights or copyrights, and the risk ofinfringement of such rights, are entirely their ownresponsibility. Copyright by SEMI® (Semiconductor Equipment and MaterialsInternational), 3081 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134. Reproduction ofthe contents in whole or in part is forbidden without express writtenconsent of SEMI.

&lt;!-- Page 5 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 20051 SEMI E82-0705SPECIFICATION FOR INTERBAY/INTRABAY AMHS SEM (IBSEM) This specification was technically approved by the global Information & Control Committee. This editionwas approved for publication by the global Audits and Reviews Subcommittee on April 7, 2005. It wasavailable at www.semi.org June 2005 and on CD-ROM in July 2005. Originally published September 1999;previously published November 2004. 1 Purpose1.1 This standard establishes a Specific Equipment Model (SEM) for interbay and intrabay AMHS transportequipment (IBSEM). The model consists of equipment characteristics and behaviors that are to be implemented inaddition to the SEMI E30 fundamental requirements and selected additional capabilities. The intent of this standardis to facilitate the integration of IBSEM equipment into an automated (e.g., semiconductor fabrication and flat paneldisplay) factory. This document accomplishes this by defining an operational model for IBSEM equipment asviewed by a factory automation controller (Host). This definition provides a standard host interface and equipmentoperational behavior (e.g., control, state models, data reports, and reporting levels). Several topics require additionalactivity that are within the scope of this standard: traffic management characteristics (queuing), parallel interface forcarrier transfer (SEMI E23), transport system controller architecture, and delivery of the transfer unit. 2 Scope2.1 The scope of this standard is limited to the usage and description of interbay and intrabay AMHS transportequipment (OHT, OHS, RGT, AGT, DWC) as perceived by a SEMI Equipment Communications Standard 2(SECS-II) host that complies with the GEM model (as specified in 13). It defines the view of the equipmentthrough the SECS communication link. It does not define the internal operation of the equipment. It includes aspecific transfer command state model and transport system controller state model as the basis for all equipment ofthis class.2.2 This document assumes that the GEM fundamental requirements and selected additional capabilities (asspecified in 13) have been implemented on the IBSEM equipment. It expands the GEM standard requirements andcapabilities in the areas of state models (TSC, transfer command, vehicle and carrier state models), collectionevents, alarm documentation, remote commands, data item variables, and material movement.NOTICE: This standard does not purport to address safety issues, if any, associated with its use. It is theresponsibility of the users of this standard to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine theapplicability of regulatory or other limitations prior to use. 3 Limitations3.1 Evaluation of SEMI E32 (MMM)3.1.1 The concepts defined in SEMI E32 were analyzed and included where applicable to the IBSEM, but the GEMmodel was used as the basis for IBSEM requirements definition.3.2 Interbay and Intrabay AMHS Transport Equipment Types3.2.1 This standard is targeted at the different types of 300 mm and interbay and intrabay AMHS transportequipment. The term IBSEM equipment refers to all types of transport equipment. The equipment types havefundamental mechanical differences:3.2.1.1 Overhead Hoist Transport (OHT)  An overhead rail guided transport system positioned for vertical accessto SEMI E15.1 compliant ports.3.2.1.2 Over Head Shuttle (OHS)  An overhead rail guided transport system (monorail) positioned for access tostocker automated interbay input and output ports. The OHS vehicle may or may not contain a transfer agent.3.2.1.3 Rail Guided Transport (RGT)  A ground-based rail guided transport system positioned for access to SEMIE15.1 compliant ports.

&lt;!-- Page 6 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 2 3.2.1.4 Automated Guided Transport (AGT)  A ground-based transport system with automated guidance (i.e., norail guidance). Automated guidance system allows vehicles to access SEMI E15.1 compliant ports.3.2.1.5 Direct WIP Conveyer (DWC)  An overhead transport system, based on direct WIP roller conveyers. Novehicles are used for point to point delivery. The conveyers are positioned for vertical access to SEMI E15.1 ports.3.2.2 Transport vehicles may contain zero or more internal buffers for carrier transport. If mechanically feasible,the transport system may acquire or deposit carriers simultaneously. If transported in a safe manner, carriertransport may occur while occupying the acquire/deposit transfer port(s) of the transport vehicle (e.g., a singleposition hoist vehicle). In the context of this standard, a vehicle on a DWC is defined as a single carrier in thetransport system.3.3 Physical Layout Limitations3.3.1 The equipment controlled by a single TSC must allow for a carrier to be transported from any given sourceport to any destination port via a single transfer command without the assistance of an external device (manual orautomated). In other words, if a source port and a destination port are controlled by a TSC, there must not exist aphysical or logical barrier that prevents a carrier from being moved between the two ports. This assumes that thetype of carrier (FOUP, Reticle Pod, etc.) is permitted at the source and destination ports. 4 Referenced Standards4.1 SEMI StandardsSEMI E4  SEMI Equipment Communications Standard 1 Message Transfer (SECS-I)SEMI E5  SEMI Equipment Communications Standard 2 Message Content (SECS-II)SEMI E23  Specification for Cassette Transfer Parallel I/O InterfaceSEMI E30  Generic Model for Communications and Control of Manufacturing Equipment (GEM) SEMI E32  Material Movement Management (MMM) SEMI E37  High-Speed SECS Message Services (HSMS) Generic ServicesSEMI E84  Specification for Enhanced Carrier Handoff Parallel I/O Interface 4.2 Other ReferencesHarel, D., Statecharts: A Visual Formalism for Complex Systems, Science of Computer Programming 8 (1987)231-274.1 NOTICE: Unless otherwise indicated, all documents cited shall be the latest published versions. 5 Terminology5.1 Abbreviations and Acronyms5.1.1 AGT  Automated Guided Transport5.1.2 AMHS  Automated Material Handling System5.1.3 DWC  Direct WIP Conveyor5.1.4 FOUP  Front Opening Unified Pod5.1.5 GEM  Generic Equipment Model5.1.6 ITS  Interbay or Intrabay Transport System5.1.7 OHS  Over Head Shuttle5.1.8 OHT  Overhead Hoist Transport 1 Elsevier Science, P.O. Box 945, New York, NY 10159-0945, http://www.elsevier.nl/homepage/browse.htt

&lt;!-- Page 7 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 20053 5.1.9 PGV  Person Guided Vehicle5.1.10 RGT  Rail Guided Transport5.1.11 TCP/IP  Transmission Communication Protocol/ Internet Protocol5.1.12 TSC  Transport System Controller5.2 Definitions5.2.1 active vehicle  a vehicle in the transport system that contains a robot or other transfer agent for providingthe acquiring (loading) and depositing (unloading) actions.5.2.2 buffer  a set of one or more locations for holding carriers at the production equipment.5.2.3 carrier  a container with one or more fixed positions for holding substrates. Examples of carriers includeFOUPs and open cassettes.5.2.4 FOUP  a closed carrier for holding wafers.5.2.5 host  the factory computer system, or an intermediate system, that represents the factory and the user to theequipment. Refers to the system that controls or supervises the Transport System Controller (TSC) throughout thisdocument.5.2.6 internal buffer  locations within the equipment to store carriers. These locations exclude load ports.5.2.7 internal transfer port  a specific type of transfer port, which is internal to a single TSC domain. As anexample, this location may be used to transfer carriers among different vehicles in a single TSC domain.5.2.8 load port  the interface location on the equipment where carriers are delivered.5.2.9 open cassette  an open structure that holds one or more wafers.5.2.10 passive vehicle  a vehicle in the transport system that does not contain a robot or other transfer agent forproviding the acquiring (loading) and depositing (unloading) actions. The vehicle simply contains a position(s) tocarry the transfer unit. The loading and unloading action must be accomplished at the load or unload port by adifferent system (e.g., stocker port robot).5.2.11 process equipment  equipment used to make semiconductor devices. This excludes metrology andmaterial handling equipment.5.2.12 production equipment  equipment used to produce semiconductor devices, including wafer sorting,process, and metrology equipment and excluding material handling equipment.5.2.13 transfer port  point on the transport system at which a change of equipment ownership of the carrieroccurs. See also internal transfer port.5.2.14 transfer unit  the element of movement (assemblage of carriers) of the ITS that consists of a maximumnumber of carriers allowed in a specific transfer command: AA is the maximum number of carriers allowed for acquire at the transfer source. BB is the maximum number of carriers allowed for deposit at the transfer destination. CC is the maximum number of carriers allowed for transfer in one transport vehicle. The maximum size of the transfer unit is the minimum of AA, BB, and CC.5.2.15 Transport System  a transport system dedicated to one or more bays in the factory and responsible fortransferring carriers to production equipment, from production equipment, from production equipment to productionequipment or from stocker to stocker. TS consists of the physical units of the system (e.g., vehicles, nodes, dockingstations), the low-level unit controllers, and a system-level controller. TS excludes factory floor storage systems(stockers), but includes any short-term storage integral to the system, such as storage locations within an overheadtrack system that are accessible only to units of the particular TS.5.2.16 Transport System Controller  interbay or intrabay Transport System Controller that communicates withthe Factory Host and represents the system as the equipment.

&lt;!-- Page 8 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 4 5.2.17 Transport System Equipment  an individual transport system viewed as a single piece of equipment, withdistributed components and distributed control. The TS controller communicates with the host using HSMS andGEM and represents the system as an equipment. The factory may require more than one type of transport system.5.2.18 transport unit  a physical component of a transport system, such as a vehicle, node, or docking unit. Figure 1Example of Transport System Equipment 6 Communication Requirements6.1 It is required that any IBSEM compliant equipment follow the Communications State Model in SEMI E30. Inaddition, IBSEM compliant equipment shall support either the High-speed SECS Message Services Single-SessionMode (SEMI E37 and SEMI E37.1, HSMS and HSMS-SS) communication standard or SEMI EquipmentCommunications Standard 1 Message Transfer (SEMI E4, SECS-I) communication standard. 7 State Models7.1 State Model Requirements7.1.1 The state models included in this standard are a requirement for IBSEM equipment. This standard requiresimplementation of all SEMI E30 state models (such as control, communication, on-line/off-line, etc. according tothe GEM capabilities required per 13). A state model consists of a state model diagram, state definitions, and astate transition table. All state transitions in this standard, unless otherwise specified, shall correspond to collectionevents.7.1.2 A state model is the hosts view of the equipment, and does not necessarily describe the internal equipmentoperation. All IBSEM state model transitions shall be mapped into the appropriate internal equipment events thatsatisfy the requirements of those transitions. In certain implementations, the equipment may enter a state and havealready satisfied all of the conditions required by the IBSEM state model for transition to another state. Theequipment makes the required transition without any additional actions in this situation.7.1.3 Some equipment may need to include additional substates other than those in this standard. Additionalsubstates may be added, but shall not change the IBSEM defined state transitions. All expected transitions betweenIBSEM states shall occur.

&lt;!-- Page 9 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 20055 7.2 TSC State Model7.2.1 TSC State Model Requirements7.2.1.1 The purpose of the Transport System state model is to provide information to the host regarding the overallstatus of the Transport System. The TSC state model is valid when the SEMI E30 (GEM) state is ON-LINE. TheTSC state model is not valid when the SEMI E30 (GEM) state is OFF-LINE. Since a transport system may consistof many components (e.g., vehicle, robot arm, ID reader, etc.), it may be possible to continue ON-LINE operationwhen the operation mode of some transport components (as viewed by the TSC) is a manual state. The details ofwhat happens when individual components of the transport system enter a manual state are specific to the IBSEMequipment supplier. When the SEMI E30 Control state changes from OFF-LINE to ON-LINE, the TSC State Modelis started from the TSC INIT state.7.2.2 TSC State Model PAUSED PAUSING AUTO ALARMS NO ALARMS TSC INIT 6 3 4 8 7 AVAILABILITYSYSTEM 5 2 1 9 C Figure 2Generic IBSEM TSC State Model Diagram 7.2.3 TSC State Definitions7.2.3.1 TSC INIT  TSC initialization of TS components is occurring. This is a non-operational state. Nocommands from the host will be processed or queued. The system will not move out of this state if there arevehicles actively loading or unloading carriers at ports. These vehicles must be manually or automatically recoveredbefore moving on to the next state.7.2.3.2 PAUSING  A system PAUSE command has been received and is being processed. All vehicles that arecurrently loading or unloading will continue until the load/unload is complete. Vehicles that are currently movingmay continue to move but they must not begin a load or unload. TRANSFER commands are accepted and queued.All status requests will be processed. The RESUME command will also be processed.7.2.3.3 PAUSED  No vehicles are in the process of loading or unloading a carrier at a port, but vehicles may stillbe moving. TRANSFER commands are accepted and queued. All status requests will be processed. The RESUMEcommand will also be processed.7.2.3.4 AUTO  System is in the normal operational state. Commands are actively processed.7.2.3.5 NO ALARMS  There are no alarms present in the system.7.2.3.6 ALARMS  There are one or more alarms present in the system, but the TSC is still capable of normalprocessing since several components may remain unaffected by the alarm situation.

&lt;!-- Page 10 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 6 7.2.4 TSC State Transition TableTable 1 TSC State Transition TableTransition # Previous State Trigger New State Actions Comments1 None TSC Initiation. TSC INIT S6F11TSCAutoInitiatedSystem runs through itsstartup sequence.2 TSC INIT System started upsuccessfully. All loadsand unloads are complete. PAUSED S6F11TSCPausedSystem ready. 3 PAUSED TSC is resumed. AUTO S6F11TSCAutoCompletedSystem will now performall commands. StoppedVehicles will resumenormal motion.4 AUTO TSC is requested topause.PAUSING S6F11TSCPauseInitiatedVehicles that are stoppedstay stopped. Vehicles thatare moving stop at the nextlogical point withoutproceeding.5 PAUSING TSC is resumed. AUTO S6F11TSCAutoCompletedSystem will now performall commands. StoppedVehicles will resumenormal motion.6 PAUSING All carrier loads andunloads are completed.No new acquires ordeposits will occur.Outstanding acquires anddeposits will complete. PAUSED S6F11TSCPauseCompletedSystem will accept andqueue new commands butwill not execute them. 7 NO ALARMS Alarm Set. ALARMS S6F11AlarmSetSystem can processnormally for transportcomponents that areunaffected by the alarm.8 ALARMS Last remaining alarmcleared.NO ALARMS S6F11AlarmCleared9 ALARMS Alarm Set. ALARMS S6F11AlarmSetAlarm occurs when there isalready an outstandingalarm. 7.3 TRANSFER Command State Model7.3.1 TRANSFER Command State Model Requirements7.3.1.1 The TRANSFER command state model serves as the SEMI E30 Processing State Model. The purpose ofthe TRANSFER command state model is to provide information to the host regarding the control of the TRANSFERcommand. The TRANSFER command allows the host to manage interbay or intrabay delivery and scheduling. Thecontrol of each TRANSFER command must independently support the TRANSFER command state model.7.3.2 TRANSFER Command State Model Diagram7.3.2.1 The TRANSFER command state model is detailed for IBSEM equipment in Figure 3.

&lt;!-- Page 11 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 20057 H\* H\* Not Active Queued Transferring Paused Active Waiting Aborting Canceling 1 2 3 4 56 789 10 11 12 13 Figure 3Generic IBSEM TRANSFER Command State Model Diagram 7.3.3 TRANSFER Command State Definitions7.3.3.1 NOT ACTIVE  The transfer unit is not involved in the physical aspect of the TRANSFER command. It isdenoted by the time spanned by the queuing of the TRANSFER command to the moment just prior to the acquire ofthe first carrier in the transfer unit.7.3.3.2 QUEUED (NOT ACTIVE sub-state)  TSC has acknowledged and queued the TRANSFER command.TRANSFER command has not been initiated.7.3.3.3 WAITING (NOT ACTIVE sub-state)  TRANSFER command has been initiated. A vehicle is on its way tothe source location to acquire the transfer unit.7.3.3.4 ACTIVE  The transfer unit is involved in the physical aspect of the TRANSFER command. It is denotedby the time spanned by the acquire of the first carrier in the transfer unit to the deposit of the last carrier in thetransfer unit.7.3.3.5 TRANSFERRING (ACTIVE sub-state)  The transfer command is actively being executed by the transportequipment.7.3.3.6 PAUSED (ACTIVE sub-state)  The transfer command is not actively being executed by the transportequipment.7.3.3.7 CANCELING  The TRANSFER command cancel procedure is being performed to terminate a transfercommand which never entered the ACTIVE state (either QUEUED or WAITING). This state is entered via aCANCEL remote command.7.3.3.8 ABORTING  The TRANSFER command abort procedure is being performed to terminate a transfercommand which has entered the ACTIVE state. This state can only be entered via an ABORT remote command.

&lt;!-- Page 12 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 8 7.3.4 TRANSFER Command State Transition TableTable 2 Transfer Command State Transition TableTransition # Previous State Trigger New State Actions Comments1 None The Host generatedTRANSFER commandis successfullyacknowledged by theTSC. QUEUED 2 QUEUED The TRANSFERcommand has beeninitiated by the TSC. WAITING S6F11 Transfer-InitiatedTransport vehicle isdispatched to acquire thetransfer unit.3 WAITING The acquire of the firstcarrier of the transferunit begins. TRANSFERRING S6F11Transferring 4 NOT ACTIVE Host issued cancel forthe TRANSFERcommand is accepted bythe TSC. CANCELING S6F11TransferCancel-Initiated A CANCEL remotecommand was issued toterminate a TRANSFERcommand that has notentered the physical aspect ofthe command.5 CANCELING Transport system isunable to cancel theTRANSFER command. Previous NOTACTIVE sub-stateS6F11TransferCancel-Failed The ability of the equipmentto successfully complete acancel of the TRANSFERcommand is specific to theIBSEM equipment supplier.6 CANCELING The cancel procedurefor the TRANSFERcommand hascompleted by thetransport system andTSC. None S6F11TransferCancel-Completed The transfer unit will still besituated at the transfer sourcelocation. The carriers in thetransfer unit may now beincluded in a future transfer(either AMHS or PGVbased).7 TRANSFERRING The TSC pausesexecution of theTRANSFER commanddue to an anomalycondition. PAUSED S6F11TransferPausedIt is an important distinctionto make that the TRANSFERcommand is paused eventhough the vehicle may notbe.8 PAUSED The TSC resumesexecution of theTRANSFER commandsince the anomalycondition has beencleared. TRANSFERRING S6F11Transfer-Resumed 9 ACTIVE Host initiates an abortof a TRANSFERcommand. ABORTING S6F11TransferAbort-Initiated An ABORT remotecommand was issued toterminate a TRANSFERcommand.10 ABORTING The abort procedure forthe TRANSFERcommand hascompleted by thetransport system andTSC. None S6F11TransferAbort-Completed Transfer unit could belocated at any location orport located along the path ofthe ACTIVE transfer. Thelocation of the carrier(s)associated with the abortedtransfer command must belegal SourcePort(s) forissuing a new TRANSFERcommand.

&lt;!-- Page 13 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 20059 Transition # Previous State Trigger New State Actions Comments11 ACTIVE The TRANSFERcommand hascompleted by thetransport system andTSC (either successfullyor unsuccessfully). None S6F11TransferCompleted sent to Host withappropriateResultCodeResultCode = 0 ifsuccessfulResultCode Not =0 if unsuccessful Carrier(s) could be located atany location or port locatedalong the path of the transferif the TRANSFER commandcompleted unsuccessfully.The location of the carrier(s)associated with anunsuccessful transfercommand must be legalSourcePort(s) for a newTRANSFER command.12 ABORTING Transport system isphysically unable toabort the TRANSFERcommand. Previous ACTIVEsub-stateS6F11TransferAbort-Failed The ability of the equipmentto successfully complete anABORT of the TRANSFERcommand is specific to theIBSEM equipment supplier.13 CANCELING Transport system isunable to cancel theTRANSFER commandbecause the transfer isnow ACTIVE. TRANSFERRING S6F11TransferringThe ability of the equipmentto successfully complete acancel of the TRANSFERcommand is specific to theIBSEM equipment supplier. 7.4 Vehicle State Model7.4.1 Vehicle State Model Requirements7.4.1.1 The purpose of the vehicle state model is to provide information to the host for use of transport vehicleinformation and metric tracking (i.e., the Host will not control vehicles). Each vehicle must individually complywith the vehicle state model. Implementation of this state model, along with associated events and variables, is not arequirement for Transport Systems which do not have vehicles. An example of such a Transport System is a DWC.The Host should not be dependent on any events from the vehicle state model.7.4.2 Vehicle State Model Figure 4Generic IBSEM Vehicle State Model Diagram

&lt;!-- Page 14 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 10 7.4.3 Vehicle State Definitions7.4.3.1 INSTALLED  The vehicle is available or being used for TRANSFER commands. All enabled collectionevents and alarms will be sent to the Host for vehicles in this state.7.4.3.2 REMOVED  The vehicle is not available for Host initiated TRANSFER commands. No collection eventsor alarms will be sent to the Host for vehicles in this state.7.4.3.3 ASSIGNED (INSTALLED sub-state)  Vehicle is allocated to a TRANSFER command.7.4.3.4 NOT ASSIGNED (INSTALLED sub-state)  Vehicle is not allocated to a TRANSFER command. Thevehicle may contain a carrier as the result of a command being aborted.7.4.3.5 ENROUTE (ASSIGNED sub-state)  The vehicle is on its way to a transfer port. This is the default entryinto the ASSIGNED state since it must be entered for the host to track vehicle metrics completely and adequately.7.4.3.6 PARKED (ASSIGNED sub-state)  This state occurs when the vehicle is in the following conditions: After the arrival of the vehicle is completed and before the action of the transfer agent is started. After the action of the transfer agent has completed and before the departure of the vehicle. After continuous actions of the transfer agent (e.g., acquire/acquire and deposit/deposit) are completed.7.4.3.7 ACQUIRING (ASSIGNED sub-state)  The vehicle is currently involved in carrier acquire (one or morecarriers possible depending on vehicle limitations).7.4.3.8 DEPOSITING (ASSIGNED sub-state)  The vehicle is currently involved in carrier deposit (one or morecarriers possible depending on vehicle limitations).7.4.4 Vehicle State Transition TableTable 3 Vehicle State Transition Table Transition # Previous State Trigger New State Actions Comment1 ENROUTE Vehicle arrives at atransfer port associatedwith an ACTIVE transfercommand. PARKED S6F11VehicleArrivedTransferPort may be aninternal transfer port. 2 PARKED Vehicle departs a transferport associated with anACTIVE transfercommand. ENROUTE S6F11VehicleDepartedTransferPort may be aninternal transfer port. 3 PARKED The carrier handoffparallel I/O starts for thevehicle to acquire (load)the transfer unit. ACQUIRING S6F11VehicleAcquire-Started If the vehicle is a passivetype then the acquireoccurs by the robot on theother equipment loadingthe transfer unit to thevehicle.4 ACQUIRING The carrier handoffparallel I/O completes forthe vehicle to acquire(load) the transfer unit. PARKED S6F11VehicleAcquire-Completed 5 PARKED The carrier handoffparallel I/O starts for thevehicle to deposit (unload)the transfer unit. DEPOSITING S6F11VehicleDeposit-Started If the vehicle is a passivetype then the depositoccurs by the robot on theother equipment unloadingthe transfer unit from thevehicle.6 DEPOSITING The carrier handoffparallel I/O completes forthe vehicle to deposit(unload) the transfer unit. PARKED S6F11VehicleDeposit-Completed

&lt;!-- Page 15 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200511 Transition # Previous State Trigger New State Actions Comment7 ACQUIRING The carrier handoffparallel I/O completes forthe vehicle to acquire(load) the transfer unit andstarts for the vehicle todeposit (unload) thecarrier. DEPOSITING S6F11VehicleDeposit-Started Carrier ReplaceSee scenario for anexample. 8 DEPOSITING The carrier handoffparallel I/O completes forthe vehicle to deposit(unload) the transfer unitand starts for the vehicleto acquire (load) thecarrier. ACQUIRING S6F11VehicleAcquire-Started Carrier ReplaceSee scenario for anexample. 9 ASSIGNED Vehicle is no longer beingutilized for the specifiedcommand. NOT ASSIGNED S6F11Vehicle-UnassignedThis could be the result ofthe command beingcompleted or aborted. Itcould also be the result ofthe TSC schedulingalgorithms assigning thisvehicle to anothercommand and/or anothervehicle being assigned tothis command.10 NOTASSIGNEDVehicle is allocated to aTRANSFER command.ASSIGNED S6F11VehicleAssigned11 INSTALLED Vehicle is removed fromuse of transfer commands.REMOVED S6F11VehicleRemoved12 REMOVED Vehicle is installed for useof transfer commands.INSTALLED S6F11VehicleInstalled 7.5 IBSEM Carrier State Model7.5.1 IBSEM Carrier State Model Requirements7.5.1.1 The purpose of the carrier state model is to provide information to the host regarding carrier tracking (theHost will not control carriers). Each carrier must comply with the carrier state model.7.5.2 IBSEM Carrier State Model INSTALLED1 2 Figure 5Generic IBSEM Carrier State Model Diagram 7.5.3 Carrier State Definitions7.5.3.1 INSTALLED  The carrier is in the physical domain of the TSC.

&lt;!-- Page 16 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 12 7.5.4 Carrier State Transition TableTable 4 Carrier State Transition TableTransition # Previous State Trigger New State Actions Comments1 None The carrier enters thephysical domain of the TSC.INSTALLED S6F11 CarrierInstalled 2 INSTALLED The carrier is removed fromthe physical domain of theTSC. None S6F11 CarrierRemoved 7.6 Port Transfer State Model7.6.1 Port Transfer State Model Requirements7.6.1.1 The purpose of the port transfer state model is to provided information to the host for the use in accessingports. This may permit the host and stocker to utilize ports that are in service while avoiding the use of ports that arenot in service.7.6.2 Port Transfer State Model IN SERVICE C READY TOLOAD READY TOUNLOAD TRANSFERBLOCKED 5 67 8 4 C1 OUT OFSERVICE 2 3 Figure 6Port State Model Diagram

&lt;!-- Page 17 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200513 7.6.3 Port Transfer State Definitions7.6.3.1 OUT OF SERVICE  Transfer to/from this port is disabled and the port should not be used in any Transfercommand issued by the host. If a command is issued by the host which uses this port, it will not be rejected simplybecause the port is in this state.7.6.3.2 IN SERVICE  Transfer to/from this port is enabled.7.6.3.3 The following are optional sub-states of the IN SERVICE state to provide information to the host for theuse in accessing ports. The information is generally obtained by the TSC via a low-level interface with theconnected equipment. The connected equipment should generally, though not required, follow the Load PortTransfer State Model defined in SEMI E87. If these states are implemented, they are not required for every port.7.6.3.3.1 TRANSFER BLOCKED  The state is neither READY TO LOAD nor READY TO UNLOAD.7.6.3.3.2 READY TO LOAD  The port is able to accept (be loaded with) a carrier from the IBSEM equipment.7.6.3.3.3 READY TO UNLOAD  The port is able to have a carrier removed (unloaded) by the IBSEM equipment.7.6.4 Port Transfer State Transition TableTable 5 Port Transfer State Transition Table Transition # Previous State Trigger New State Action Comments1 None System reset. OUT OFSERVICEOrINSERVICE S6F11PortOutOfServiceOrS6F11 PortInService The new state is based onthe current status of theport or the state prior tosystem reset. 2 OUT OFSERVICEThe equipment has determinedthat the port can be utilized fortransfers. INSERVICES6F11 PortInService 3 IN SERVICE The equipment has determinedthat the port should not be usedfor transfers. OUT OFSERVICES6F11PortOutOfServiceThis could be the result ofan alarm condition. 4 None System Reset. TRANSFERBLOCKEDREADY TOLOADREADY TOUNLOAD S6F11PortTransferBlockedS6F11PortReadyToLoadS6F11PortReadyToUnload The new state is based onthe current status of theport. 5 TRANSFERBLOCKEDPort ready for carrier delivery. READY TOLOADS6F11PortReadyToLoad6 TRANSFERBLOCKEDPort ready for carrier removal. READY TOUNLOADS6F11PortReadyToUnload7 READY TOLOADNo carrier transfer allowed. TRANSFERBLOCKEDS6F11PortTransferBlocked8 READY TOUNLOADNo carrier transfer allowed. TRANSFERBLOCKEDS6F11PortTransferBlocked 8 Collection Event List8.1 This section identifies data collection events and defines (Stream 6) suggested associated variable data items.The host can use the report definition scenario defined in SEMI E30 to define reports at IBSEM defined levels. Theintent of this section is to demonstrate that certain suggested data is available at specific events.8.2 Requirements8.2.1 This standard requires all collection events listed in the SEMI E30 standard (according to the GEMcapabilities required per 13).

&lt;!-- Page 18 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 14 8.2.2 Collection Event TableTable 6 Collection Event Table (State Transition Based)Collection Event Name From State To State Required DVVALsTSC STATE TRANSITION EVENTSAlarmCleared ALARMS NO ALARMS CommandIDVehicleInfoAlarmSet NO ALARMSALARMSALARMSALARMSCommandIDVehicleInfoTSCAutoCompleted PAUSEDPAUSINGAUTOAUTON/A TSCAutoInitiated None TSC INIT N/ATSCPauseCompleted PAUSING PAUSED N/ATSCPaused TSC INIT PAUSED N/ATSCPauseInitiated AUTO PAUSING N/ATRANSFER COMMAND STATE TRANSITION EVENTSTransferAbortCompleted ABORTING None CommandIDTransferCompleteInfoTransferAbortFailed ABORTING ACTIVE (History) CommandIDTransferAbortInitiated ACTIVE ABORTING CommandIDTransferCancelCompleted CANCELING None CommandIDTransferCancelFailed CANCELING NOT ACTIVE (History) CommandIDTransferCancelInitiated NOT ACTIVE CANCELING CommandIDTransferCompleted ACTIVE None CommandInfoTransferCompleteInfoResultCodeTransferInitiated QUEUED WAITING CommandIDTransferPaused TRANSFERRING PAUSED CommandIDTransferResumed PAUSED TRANSFERRING CommandIDTransferring WAITINGCANCELINGTRANSFERRINGTRANSFERRINGCommandID VEHICLE STATE TRANSITION EVENTSVehicleArrived ENROUTE PARKED VehicleIDTransferPortListVehicleAcquireStarted PARKEDDEPOSITINGACQUIRINGACQUIRINGVehicleIDTransferPortCarrierID(If Multi-position vehicles)TransferPortListCarrierIDListVehicleAcquireCompleted ACQUIRING PARKED VehicleIDTransferPortCarrierID(If Multi-position vehicles)TransferPortListCarrierIDListVehicleAssigned NOT ASSIGNED ASSIGNED VehicleIDCommandIDVehicleDeparted PARKED ENROUTE VehicleIDTransferPortList

&lt;!-- Page 19 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200515 Collection Event Name From State To State Required DVVALsVehicleDepositStarted PARKEDACQUIRINGDEPOSITINGDEPOSITINGVehicleIDTransferPortCarrierID(If Multi-position vehicles)TransferPortListCarrierIDListVehicleDepositCompleted DEPOSITING PARKED VehicleIDTransferPortCarrierID(If Multi-position vehicles)TransferPortListCarrierIDListVehicleInstalled REMOVED INSTALLED VehicleIDVehicleRemoved INSTALLED REMOVED VehicleIDVehicleUnassigned ASSIGNED NOT ASSIGNED VehicleIDCommandIDCARRIER STATE TRANSITION EVENTSCarrierInstalled None INSTALLED VehicleIDCarrierIDCarrierLocCommandIDCarrierRemoved INSTALLED None VehicleIDCarrierIDCarrierLocCommandIDPORT TRANSFER STATE TRANSITION EVENTSPortInService NoneOUT OF SERVICEIN SERVICE PortID PortOutOfService NoneIN SERVICEOUT OF SERVICE PortID PortTransferBlocked Any TRANSFER BLOCKED PortIDPortReadyToLoad Any READY TO LOAD PortIDPortReadyToUnload Any READY TO UNLOAD PortID 8.3 Non-Transition Collection Event TableTable 7 Non-Transition Collection Event TableCollection Event Name Event Description Required DVVALsOperatorInitiatedAction The operator initiated an action from theTransport System Controller. The relatedState Transition Events defined in Table 6shall be required after thisOperatorInitiatedAction event. CommandIDCommandTypeCarrierIDSourcePortDestPortPriorityUnitStatusCleared An Informational Status has beencleared on a transport unit. This eventis not required for compliance with thespecification but shall be generated forevery UnitStatusOccurred event that isgenerated with a UnitStatusClearablevalue of Y. UnitID, UnitStatusID, UnitStatusText,VehicleState, VehicleLocationThe Vehicle variables are only requiredif a vehicle based system is beingimplemented.

&lt;!-- Page 20 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 16 Collection Event Name Event Description Required DVVALsUnitStatusOccurred An Informational Status occurred on atransport unit. The supplier determineswhen and what status information is tobe supplied to the host. This event is notrequired for compliance with thespecification. UnitID, UnitStatusID, UnitStatusText,UnitStatusClearable, VehicleState,VehicleLocationThe Vehicle variables are only requiredif a vehicle based system is beingimplemented. 9 Variable Data Items9.1 The purpose of this section is to define the list of variable data item requirements for IBSEM equipment. Valuesof these variables will be available to the host via collection event reports and host status queries.9.2 Requirements All variable data items defined in GEM and data item restrictions defined in SEMI E30 are required on IBSEMequipment (according to the GEM capabilities required per 13). All variable data items in the IBSEM Variable Data Item Dictionary for specific equipment classifications arerequired for IBSEM equipment. The data item restrictions are also required. Some SVs in the Variable Data Item Dictionary are referenced by an i subscript (e.g., CarrierID i). The isubscript denotes a specific instance of the SV. This is necessary since there is usually more than one instanceof such an SV active in the system at the same time (e.g., if there are 20 carriers active at the same time then icould range from 1 to 20 for CarrierIDi). Variable Data Items containing the i subscript should not haveVariable IDs assigned to them. All variable data items with a format of ASCII (A) shall be limited to printable characters in the decimal rangeof 32 to 126 with the exception of the following non-permitted characters: \* (decimal 42), \\(decimal 92).9.2.1 Variable data items are documented in the IBSEM Variable Data Item Dictionary using the following format: Variable Name Type Description Class Format Comment Where:Variable Name: A unique name for the variable data item.Type: CV  meaning common variables, variables that are general to all vehicles.CSV  meaning configuration specific variables.Description: If class is DVVAL, then the description shall contain a statement of when data is valid in terms ofIBSEM events.Class: The data type of the item.Format: &lt; SECS Message Language (SML) mnemonic &gt; acceptable formats are SEMI E5 lists, ASCII,floating point, unsigned integer or signed integer. A description of ANY, indicates that only the above formatsare acceptable and is left to the supplier to decide.Comments: Any additional information pertinent to the variable name.9.3 Variable Data Item Types9.3.1 Equipment Constants (ECV)  The value can be changed by the host using S2F15. The operator may havethe ability to change some or all of the values. The value of equipment constant may be queried at any time by thehost using the S2F13/14 transaction or Stream 6 reports.9.3.2 Status Variables (SV)  The values are valid at all times. A SV may not be changed by the host or operator,but may be changed by the equipment. A host or operator command may change an equipment status thus changinga SV. The value of status variables may be queried by the host at any time using the S1F3/4 or Stream 6 reports.

&lt;!-- Page 21 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200517 9.3.3 Data Variables (DVVAL)  These are variables which are valid upon the occurrence of a specific collectionevent, and may or may not be valid at other times depending upon the equipment. An attempt to read a variable dataitem when its invalid will not result in an error, but the data reported may not have relevant meaning.9.3.4 Variable Data (V)  This is a class of variable data which includes all the previously defined types ofvariables.9.4 Variable Data Item DictionaryTable 8 Variable Data Item DictionaryVariable Name Type Description Class Format CommentActiveCarriers CV List current status of allINSTALLED carriers.SV L,n1. ..n. ActiveTransfers CV List current status of allACTIVE TRANSFERcommands. SV L,n1. ..n. ActiveVehicles CV List current status of allvehicles available or beingused for TRANSFERcommands. SV L,n1. ..n. CarrierID CV ID of the carrier being moved.CarrierID must be unique foreach carrier within the TSC. DVVAL A\[164\] If an Id is created by theequipment (not obtained viaan id reader, the hostinterface, or the userinterface) it must be of thefollowing format:UNKNOWNEqpNameSeqWhere:UNKNOWN are the exactcharacters UNKNOWNEqpName is the value of theEqpName ECV (truncated ifrequired)Seq is a unique sequenceidentifier determined by thevendor.CarrierIDi CV ID of the ith carrier. SV A\[164\] See comment for CarrierID.CarrierIDList CV The Ids of the Carriers beingmoved.DVVAL L,n1...n. n is the number of carriersbeing simultaneouslytransferred. CarrierInfo CV All database informationassociated with a particularcarrier generating an event. DVVAL L,31. 2\. 3.

&lt;!-- Page 22 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 18 Variable Name Type Description Class Format CommentCarrierInfoi CV All database informationassociated with the ith carrier.SV L,31. 2\. 3\. CarrierLoc CSV Unique location of the carrierwithin ITS as reported by theTSC. DVVAL A\[164\] For multiple positionvehicles, the CarrierLocmust be unique for eachposition on the vehicle andmust be distinct from alocation on any other vehicle.CarrierLoc i CSV Unique Location of the ithcarrier within ITS as reportedby the TSC. SV A\[164\] CommandID CV Remote Command IDCommand ID generated byTSC. DVVAL A\[164\] Used to subsequently refer toa specified remote command(e.g., to cancel a remotecommand).If a command is generated bythe Transport SystemController using Non-Transition Collection EventOperatorInitiatedAction,the commandId must beginwith the string MANUALfollowed by any arbitrarysequence identifier.CommandIDi CV The i th Remote Command ID.The i th Command IDgenerated by TSC. SV A\[164\] Used to subsequently refer toa specified remote command(e.g., to cancel a remotecommand).CommandInfo CV Command informationassociated with a particulartransfer command. DVVAL L,31. 2\. 3\. CommandInfoi CV Command informationassociated with the ith transfercommand. SV L,31. 2\. 3\. CommandName CV Host command issued tocontroller.DVVAL A\[120\] CommandType CV The type of Command beinginitiated.DVVAL A\[1-20\] Valid Values areTRANSFERCANCELABORTCurrentPortStates CV Current State of all the ports. SV L,n1. ..n. DestPort CV Destination port uniqueidentifier.DVVAL A\[164\] Must be the name of the portnot the correspondingtransport system node nameor number.

&lt;!-- Page 23 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200519 Variable Name Type Description Class Format CommentDestPort i CV The i th Destination portunique identifier.SV A\[164\] Must be the name of the portnot the correspondingtransport system node nameor number.EnhancedCarriers CV List Current status of allcarrier information in the TSCdatabase. This includes allcarriers for which there areTransfer commands. SV L,n1. ..n. EnhancedCarrier-Info iCV All database informationassociated with a particularcarrier. SV L,41. 2\. 3\. 4\. EnhancedTransfers CV List current status of ALLtransfer commands.SV L,n1...n.EnhancedTransferCommand iCV Information associated with aparticular Transfer command.SV L,31. 2\. 3\. L,n1. .n. EnhancedVehicles CV List current status of allvehicles available or beingused for TRANSFERcommands. SV L,n1. ..n.EnhancedVehicle-Info iCV Information associated with aparticular vehicle.SV L,31. 2\. 3\. EqpName CV Unique ID of the TSC. ECV A\[180\] Like a device name.InstallTimei CV Time the carrier was createdin the TSC database.SV TIME (A16) yyyymmddhhmmsscc PortID CV ID of the port. DVVAL A\[164\]PortIDi CV ID of the port. SV A\[164\]PortInfoi CV Port information associatedwith a particular port.SV L,21. 2\. PortTransferState i CV Port Transfer State. SV U2 1  OutOfService2  InService3  TransferBlocked4  ReadyToLoad5  ReadyToUnload

&lt;!-- Page 24 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 20 Variable Name Type Description Class Format CommentPriority CV Remote command priority. DVVAL U2 0 is not valid.1 is the LOWEST priority,99 is the highest priority.Priority i CV The i th Remote commandpriority.SV U2 0 is not valid.1 is the LOWEST priority,99 is the highest priority.Replace CV Flag to denote if a transfercommand involves a carrierreplace at the DestPort. DVVAL U2 0 = OFF&gt; 0 = ON Replace i CV The i th flag used to denote if atransfer command involves acarrier replace at theDestPort. SV U2 0 = OFF&gt; 0 = ON ResultCode CV Result Code of a transportsystem command. Associatedwith the commandcompletion event. DVVAL U2Successful = 0Unsuccessful  0ResultCodes that must beimplemented are:CanceledAborted Values of ResultCode willcorrespond to meaningfulcompletion results (0 alwayssignifies normal successfulcompletion). SourcePort CV Source port unique identifier. DVVAL A\[164\] Must be the name of the portnot the correspondingtransport system node nameor number.SourcePort i CV The i th Source port uniqueidentifier.SV A\[164\] Must be the name of the portnot the correspondingtransport system node nameor number.SpecVersion CV Version of SEMI E82 towhich the equipment iscompliant. SV A\[020\] Example values are:SEMI E82-0999, SEMI E82-0301. If the equipment is notcompliant, a zero lengthvalue may be specified.TransferCommand CV Information associated with aparticular TRANSFERcommand. DVVAL L,n1. 2\. ...n. m ≤ Number of carriers inthe Transfer Unit TransferCommand i CV Information associated withthe i th TRANSFER command.SV L,21. 2\. L, m1. ...m. m = Number of carriers inthe Transfer Unit

&lt;!-- Page 25 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200521 Variable Name Type Description Class Format CommentTransferComplete-InfoCV Carrier information associatedwith a transfer.DVVAL L,n1.2\. ::n.1\. 2\. N : size of Transfer Unit TransferInfo CV Carrier information associatedwith a particular transfercommand. DVVAL L,31. 2\. 3\. TransferInfo i CV Carrier information associatedwith the ith transfer command.SV L,31. 2\. 3\. TransferPort CV Transfer Port uniqueidentifier.DVVAL A\[164\] Must be the name of the portwhere the transfer is takingplace, not the correspondingtransport system node nameor number. May be theunique name of an internaltransfer port, and thereforemay not correspond to avalid SourcePort or DestPortvalue.TransferPortList CV Transfer Port informationassociated with a particularvehicle arrival or departureevent. DVVAL L,n1. 2\. ...n. n &gt; 1 for simultaneoustransfers TransferState i CV State of Transfer Command. SV U2 1. Queued2. Transferring3. Paused4. Canceling5. Aborting6. WaitingTSCState CV TSC State (SYSTEM). SV U2 1 = TSC Init2 = Paused3 = Auto4 = PausingUnitID CV The Id of the transport unit. DVVAL A\[164\] This is the id of a port,vehicle, etc.UnitLocation CV The location of the transportunit.DVVAL A\[0-64\] This is the id of the locationof the transport unit. Itcould be the id of a port, asection of track, etc.

&lt;!-- Page 26 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 22 Variable Name Type Description Class Format CommentUnitStatusClearableCV When a UnitStatusOccuredevent is generated this flagindicates if the equipment isgoing to generate aUnitStatusCleared eventwhen the status is corrected. DVVAL A\[1\] Y  A UnitStatusClearedevent will be generated.N  A UnitStatusClearedevent will be NOT begenerated. UnitStatusID CV The identification of thestatus.DVVAL A\[164\] This is generally a vendordetermined id whichidentifies the status. Forexample it could beLostCommunication orSensorMalfunction or1234.UnitStatusText CV Vendor specific informationrelating to the UnitStatusIDDVVAL A\[0-80\] Information that may behelpful to an operator. Thiscould include more preciselocation information or otherrelated information.VehicleID CV Unique identification of avehicle associated with anevent. DVVAL A\[132\] VehicleIDi CV Unique identification of theith vehicle.SV A\[132\] VehicleInfo CV Information associated with aparticular vehicle.DVVAL L,21. 2\. VehicleInfoi CV Information associated withthe ith vehicle.SV L,21. 2\. VehicleLocation CV Location of the vehicle. DVVAL A\[064\] The vehicles port location.The data is only valid if thevehicle is Parked, Acquiring,or Depositing.VehicleLocationi CV Location of the vehicle. SV A\[064\] The vehicles port location.The data is only valid of thevehicle is Parked, Acquiring,or Depositiong.VehicleState CV The state of the vehicle. DVVAL U2 1 = Removed2 = Not Assigned3 = Enroute4 = Parked5 = Acquiring6 = DepositingVehicleStatei CV The state of the ith vehicle. SV U2 See VehicleState above.#1 Current location (port or vehicle id) of the carrier is reported in CarrierLoc. This may be used as a source port in a following transfercommand. 10 Alarm List10.1 Since each model of IBSEM equipment differs in configuration, it is not practical to provide an exhaustive listof all possible alarms. Instead, the IBSEM is requiring the two tables provided as described in SEMI E30(Document Section). Alarm List Table which is intended to provide for equipment configuration specific alarmsand Alarm ID, Alarm Set/Cleared Event Table. Any alarm that is displayed locally at the equipment, if enabled, isrequired to be sent to the host. To be compliant, Tables 9 and 10 must be completed by the supplier, documentingall alarms.

&lt;!-- Page 27 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200523 10.2 Alarm List Table10.2.1 The alarm list table contains examples of alarms that pertain to various configuration aspects of equipment.These examples are intended to illustrate that alarms pertain to situations in which there exists a potential forexceeding physical safety limits associated with people, equipment, and material being transported as per the SEMIE30 definition of an alarm. See SEMI E30 for further reference. The supplier is responsible for supplyingdocumentation associated with these alarm definitions. Each alarm will have an associated alarm text (ALTX) andalarm identifier (ALID). Table 9 contains example alarm list information that is intended to be augmented when theIBSEM equipment supplier documents its interface. Examples highlighted by (\*) are required by IBSEM.Table 9 Alarm List Table Danger AffectedEquipment Cfg. Alarm Text ALIDPotential Imminant Operator Equipment Materialvehicle obstruction\*(exceeded timeout)X X transport systemequipment failure\*X X X Carrier HandoffParallel I/O failure\*X X X X OHT, OHS, RGT,AGT, and DWC database error\* X X 10.3 Alarm ID, Alarm Set/Cleared Event Table10.3.1 The Alarm ID, Alarm Set/Cleared Event table documents the association of each ALID to a set and clearedevent as required by SEMI E30. See SEMI E30 for further reference. The supplier is responsible for supplyingdocumentation associated with these alarm definitions. Each alarm will have associated alarm set and clearedcollection event identifiers (CEID set and CEID clear). Table 10 contains example alarm event information that isintended to be replaced when the IBSEM equipment supplier documents its interface.Table 10 Alarm ID, Alarm Set/Cleared Event Table Alarm ID (ALID) Alarm SET Event (CEIDset ) Alarm CLEARED Event (CEIDcleared ) 11 Remote Commands11.1 The purpose of this section is to identify remote commands, command parameters, and valid commands versusstates pertinent to the SEM. All remote commands identified in this section follow the format of the S2,F41 HostCommand Send SECS-II message except for the TRANSFER and STAGE commands, which follow the S2,F49Enhanced Remote Command Send SECS-II message.11.2 Requirements The equipment shall support the SEMI E30 (according to the GEM capabilities required per 13) requiredremote commands. All the remote commands defined by IBSEM are required to be implemented as specified. The alphanumeric strings defined by IBSEM for RCMD and CPNAME are required. A completed table must be generated where an X is placed in the table for each state that a given command isvalid.

&lt;!-- Page 28 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 24  If additional remote commands are supported then a remote commands versus valid states matrix must begenerated for these additional commands. For additional commands, a table must be generated similar to the remote command descriptions summary.11.3 Remote Commands Description11.3.1.1 ABORT  This command terminates the activity of a specific TRANSFER command based onCommandID while the command is in the ACTIVE state. This command may not be accepted due to mechanicalissues if the vehicle is in a specific condition (e.g., depositing a carrier). The exact conditions surrounding when theABORT command is not accepted by the TSC must be documented by the IBSEM equipment supplier.11.3.1.2 CANCEL  This command terminates the activity of a specific TRANSFER command based onCommandID while the command is in either the QUEUED or WAITING state. This command must always beaccepted by the TSC when in the QUEUED or WAITING state.11.3.1.3 PAUSE  This command puts the TSC in the PAUSING state.11.3.1.4 RESUME  This command puts the TSC in the AUTO state.11.3.1.5 TRANSFER  This is a SECS-II Enhanced Remote Command instead of a SECS-II Host Command Send(S2,F49 instead of S2,F41). See the examples in Related Information 1 for details.11.3.1.5.1 This command is used to perform the entire transfer command for the carrier(s) to be transferred betweentransfer ports. The execution of this command will include allocation of a vehicle, acquiring the carrier(s), movingthe carrier(s) to the destination port(s), depositing the carrier(s), and returning the vehicle for other use. The numberof carriers in the TRANSFER command is less than or equal to the number of carriers in the transfer unit (see 5.2for definition of the transfer unit). It is recommended that the Carrier already be at the SOURCEPORT upon theissue of the TRANSFER command, otherwise, it is possible that the TRANSFER command can fail on emptyacquire when no carrier is present on the SOURCEPORT when the acquire is started.11.3.1.5.2 This command shall not be rejected or denied for the sole reason that a STAGEID in the STATEIDLISTparameter does not reference the STAGEID of any current STAGE command. The TRANSFER command shall beprocessed as if the invalid STAGEID was not present in the message.11.3.1.6 INFOUPDATE  This is used to associate information with a carrier while in the TSC database. Thiscommand is an optional feature and is not required for compliance. If this command is not supported, then aHCACK of 1 (Command does not exist) shall be returned. If the carrier does not exist in the TSC database, then aHCACK of 3 (At least one parameter is invalid) shall be returned.11.3.1.7 STAGE  This is used to inform the TSC that a transport will be requested in the future. This commandallows, but does not require, the TSC to perform Transfer optimizations. This command is an optional feature and isnot required for compliance. If this command is not supported, then a HCACK of 1 (Command does not exist)shall be returned. It is also permissible for the command to be accepted and no action taken. The Host is notrequired to send this command prior to a TRANSFER. Multiple valid STAGE commands for the sameSOURCEPORT can exist at the same time. A STAGE command becomes invalid once the subsequent TRANSFERcommand is received, once the WAITTIMEOUT has expired, or once it has been deleted with STAGEDELETE.The use of this command may cause premature blocking of sections of the transport system based upon the values ofthe timers along with the TSC software and hardware implementations.11.3.1.8 STAGEDELETE  This command is used to delete STAGE commands. If a STAGEID is specified, thenthat STAGE command shall be deleted. If the STAGEID is not specified, (STAGEID cpname parameter is notincluded in the message), then all STAGE commands shall be deleted. It can be used in anomaly situations when aTRANSFER command will not be sent, or prior to sending an updated STAGE command, or during recoverscenarios.

&lt;!-- Page 29 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200525 11.3.2 Remote Commands and Associated Host Command Parameters11.3.2.1 This table describes the allowable command parameters (CPNAME) for each remote command (RCMD).Equipment shall support all parameters. The column marked Req/Opt, specifies which parameters are required to besent by the host and which parameters may be optionally sent by the host.Table 11 Allowable Command ParametersParametersRemote CommandCpname Req/opt CommentABORT COMMANDID R Must specify the commandID that was used for the TRANSFERcommand that is being ABORTed.CANCEL COMMANDID R Must specify the commandID that was used for the TRANSFERcommand that is being CANCELed.INFOUPDATE CARRIERIDHostDefinedROThe HostDefined cpnames are used to indicate the name of thedata that is to be associated with a carrier. See 12 for examplescenarios. The data associated with a carrier is for display purposesonly and information such as the carriers current location and statecannot be changed with this command.PAUSE None NA Once received by the TSC, the TSC will queue any TRANSFERcommands until the TSC receives and successfully executes theRESUME command. Once in the AUTO state the TSC will processthe TRANSFER commands in its queue.RESUME None N/A Returns the PAUSEd TSC to the AUTO state.STAGE STAGEINFOTRANSFERINFO\*RR\*STAGE commands are allowed a maximum of |transfer unit|TRANSFERINFOs.Any information that is unknown to the Host at the time the STAGEis sent shall be left blank in the TransferInfo. In some scenarios,information in the STAGE command may differ from that in thesubsequent TRANSFER command.STAGEDELETE STAGEID O The STAGEID of the corresponding STAGE command to bedeleted.TRANSFER COMMANDINFOTRANSFERINFO\*STAGEIDLIST RRO \* TRANSFER commands are allowed a maximum of |transfer unit|TRANSFERINFOs.STAGEIDLIST contains the STAGEID of each STAGE commandthat this TRANSFER command fulfills. 11.3.3 Host Command Parameters Name and ValuesTable 12 Host Command Parameters CPNAMES Parameter ValueCpnameDescription Range FormatCARRIERID ID of the carrier being moved. A\[164\]COMMANDID Unique command identifier created by the Host. A\[164\]COMMANDINFO L,3COMMANDIDPRIORITYREPLACE L,3 DESTPORT Destination port unique identifier. A\[164\]EXPECTEDDURATIONThe amount of time, in seconds, the host expects betweenthe STAGE command and the subsequent TRANSFERcommand. 0-999 U2

&lt;!-- Page 30 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 26 Parameter ValueCpnameDescription Range FormatNOBLOCKINGTIME The amount of time, in seconds, following a STAGEcommand that movement past the SOURCEPORT shouldnot be blocked by a transport unit. This time should notexceed the ExpectedDuration. 0999 U2 PRIORITY Remote command priority. 0 is not valid.1 is the LOWESTpriority, 99 is thehighest priority. U2 REPLACE Flag to denote a TRANSFER replace carrier. Replace acarrier already on the port with the one on the vehicle.Refers to the subsequent TRANSFER command whenused in a STAGE command. 0 is OFF&gt; 0 is ONU2 SOURCEPORT Source port unique identifier. A\[164\]STAGEID The unique STAGE command identifier created by thehost.A\[164\] STAGEIDLIST L,n1. 2\. ...n. L,nThe format shallfollow format A asdefined for the S2F49message in SEMI E5.(The CPNAMESTAGEID is NOTincluded, only values).For Example:L,21. STAGEIDLIST2. L,n1, Stage 12. Stage2n, StageNSTAGEINFO L,6STAGEIDPRIORITYREPLACEEXPECTEDDURATIONNOBLOCKINGTIMEWAITTIMEOUT L,6 TRANSFERINFO L,3CARRIERIDSOURCEPORTDESTPORT L,3 WAITTIMEOUT The amount of time, in seconds, after the SOURCEPORTis reached by a transport unit and the ExpectedDurationhas elapsed that the STAGE command should beconsidered valid by the TSC. Following the WaitTimeout,the Controller should disregard the STAGE command. 0999 U2 11.3.4 Remote Commands versus TSC and TRANSFER Command States11.3.4.1 The following table indicates TSC and TRANSFER Command States where the remote commands areallowed. This is indicated with a X mark. Remote commands act independently of other state models (e.g.,

&lt;!-- Page 31 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200527 Vehicle States and Carrier States are independent from the IBSEM remote commands). NA (Not Applicable)means that States and Remote Commands have no direct relationship.Table 13 Remote Commands versus TSC and TRANSFER Command StatesCOMMAND TRANSFERRESUMEPAUSECANCELABORTINFOUPDATESTAGESTAGEDELETETSC STATEAUTO X X X X X X XALARMS X X X X X X X XNO ALARMS X X X X X X X XINITPAUSED X X X X X X XPAUSING X X X X X X XTRANSFER COMMAND STATEQUEUED N/A N/A N/A X N/A N/A N/AWAITING N/A N/A N/A X N/A N/A N/AACTIVE (PAUSED or TRANS.) N/A N/A N/A X N/A N/A N/AABORTING N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/ACANCELING N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 12 Scenarios12.1 The following scenarios represent Application Notes. In the scenarios, all unique Remote Command IDs mustinitially be created and sent by the Host. Subsequent event reports sent from the equipment referring to the status ofa particular remote command must return the applicable CommandID. All collection events identified in Table 6 areassumed to be enabled (per the SEMI E30 definition/scenario) throughout the following scenarios. Variable dataspecified in the Host commands has been chosen arbitrarily for the purpose of demonstrating messagestructure/content. The Collection Event Report definitions contained in the scenarios are examples that could bedefined by the Host.12.2 Normal Transport12.2.1 Single Carrier Transfer  Transfer Unit Size is Equal to 1 Carrier12.2.1.1 A carrier is transported from a source port to a destination port.STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. Carrier 123456 is sittingat PORTXX prepared for aTRANSFER command.2. Enhanced Remote Command(ERC)TRANSFER. COMMANDID = 111111. PRIORITY = 5. REPLACE = 0. TRANSFERINFO 1 - L,31. CARRIERID = 1234562. SOURCEPORT = PORTXX3. DESTPORT = PORTYY S2,F49-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 32 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 28 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS3. &lt;-S2,F50 Enhanced Remote CommandAcknowledge (ERCA)4. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferInitiated. CommandID = 1111115. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;6. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAssigned. VehicleID = CARXX/\* Actual VehicleID usedfor the transfer may bedifferent due to TSCscheduling optimizations\*/CommandID = 1111117. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;8. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleArrived. VehicleID = CARXX. TransferPortList -L,11. TransferPort =PORTXX9. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;10. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)Transferring. CommandID = 11111111. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;12. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAcquireStarted. VehicleID = CARXX. TransferPort =PORTXX. CarrierID = 12345613. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;14. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierInstalled. VehicleID = CARXX. CarrierID = 123456. CarrierLoc = LOC115. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;16. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAcquireCompleted. VehicleID = CARXX. TransferPort =PORTXX. CarrierID = 12345617. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 33 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200529 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS18. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDeparted. VehicleID = CARXX. TransferPortList -L,11. TransferPort =PORTXX19. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;20. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleArrived. VehicleID = CARXX. TransferPortList -L,11. TransferPort =PORTYY21. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;22. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDepositStarted. VehicleID = CARXX. TransferPort =PORTYY. CarrierID = 12345623. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;24. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierRemoved. VehicleID = CARXX. CarrierID = 123456. CarrierLoc = LOC125. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;26. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDeposit-Completed. VehicleID = CARXX. TransferPort =PORTYY. CarrierID = 12345627. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;28. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleUnassigned. VehicleID = CARXX. CommandID = 11111129. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 34 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 30 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS30. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferCompleted. CommandName =TRANSFER. CommandID = 111111. Priority = 5. Replace = 0. ResultCode = 0. CarrierLoc = PORTYY. TransferInfo 1 - L,31. CarrierID = 1234562. SourcePort = PORTXX3. DestPort = PORTYY31. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt; 12.2.2 Simultaneous Multiple Carrier Transfer  Transfer Unit Size is Equal to 2 Carriers12.2.2.1 Two carriers are transported from 2 source ports (e.g., L-Shaped stocker output ports) to 2 destination ports(e.g., process equipment ports). The transport vehicle is capable of acquiring and depositing 2 carriers at the sametime (e.g., forking type vehicle). It is assumed that the source and destination ports must be the same equipment.STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. Both carriers are preparedfor a TRANSFER command atthe source ports.2. Enhanced Remote Command(ERC). TRANSFER. COMMANDID = 111111. PRIORITY = 5. REPLACE = 0. TRANSFERINFO1  L,31. CARRIERID = 1234562. SOURCEPORT = PORTX13. DESTPORT = PORTY1. TRANSFERINFO2  L,34. CARRIERID = 6543215. SOURCEPORT = PORTX26. DESTPORT = PORTY2 S2,F49-&gt; 3. &lt;-S2,F50 Enhanced Remote CommandAcknowledge (ERCA)4. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferInitiated. CommandID = 1111115. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;6. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAssigned. VehicleID = AGVXX. CommandID = 1111117. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 35 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200531 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS8. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleArrived. VehicleID = AGVXX. TransferPortList  L,21. TransferPort1 =PORTX12. TransferPort 2 =PORTX29. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 10. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)Transferring. CommandID = 11111111. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 12. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAcquireStarted. VehicleID = AGVXX13. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 14. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierInstalled. VehicleID = AGVXX. CarrierID = 123456. CarrierLoc = LOC115. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 16. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierInstalled. VehicleID = AGVXX. CarrierID = 654321. CarrierLoc = LOC217. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 18. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAcquireCompleted. VehicleID = AGVXX19. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 20. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDeparted. VehicleID = AGVXX. TransferPortList  L,21. TransferPort 1 =PORTX12. TransferPort 2 =PORTX221. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;22. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleArrived. VehicleID = AGVXX. TransferPortList  L,21. TransferPort 1 =PORTY12. TransferPort 2 =PORTY2

&lt;!-- Page 36 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 32 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS23. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;24. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDepositStarted. VehicleID = AGVXX25. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;26. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierRemoved. VehicleID = AGVXX. CarrierID = 123456. CarrierLoc = LOC127. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;28. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierRemoved. VehicleID = AGVXX. CarrierID = 654321. CarrierLoc = LOC229. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;30. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDeposit-CompletedVehicleID = AGVXX31. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 32. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleUnassigned. VehicleID = AGVXX. CommandID = 11111133. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 34. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferCompleted(Complete parameters). CommandName =TRANSFER. CommandID = 111111. Priority = 5. Replace = 0. ResultCode = 0. CarrierLoc1 = PORTY1. TransferInfo 1  L,31. CarrierID = 1234562. SourcePort = PORTX13. DestPort = PORTY1. CarrierLoc 2 = PORTY2. TransferInfo 2  L,34. CarrierID = 6543215. SourcePort = PORTX26. DestPort = PORTY235. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 37 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200533 12.2.3 Continuous Multiple Carrier Transfer  Transfer Unit Size is Equal to 2 Carriers12.2.3.1 Two carriers are transported from a single source port to a single destination port. This scenario is used todemonstrate how the TSC would handle a continuous load/unload request. It also shows the sequence of eventsassociated with the continuous case. It is assumed that the source and destination ports must be the same equipment.STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. The carriers are preparedfor a TRANSFER command.They are sittingsequentially at the singlepickup point sourceoutput. 123456 is at thevehicle accessible sourceport for the first acquireof two. 654321 is sittingright behind it, and itwill be shuttled out after123456 is acquired by thevehicle. The vehicle willthen acquire 654321 oncein position. Thedepositing order dependson the IBSEM suppliersfunctional specification.2. Enhanced RemoteCommand(ERC)TRANSFER. COMMANDID = 111111. PRIORITY = 5. REPLACE = 0. TRANSFERINFO1  L,31. CARRIERID = 1234562. SOURCEPORT = PORTXX3. DESTPORT = PORTYY. TRANSFERINFO2  L,34. CARRIERID = 6543215. SOURCEPORT = PORTXX6. DESTPORT = PORTYY S2,F49-&gt; 3. &lt;-S2,F50 Enhanced Remote CommandAcknowledge (ERCA)4. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferInitiated. CommandID = 1111115. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;6. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAssigned. VehicleID = RGVXX. CommandID = 1111117. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;8. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleArrived. VehicleID = RGVXX. TransferPortList  L,11. TransferPort =PORTXX9. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 38 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 34 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS10. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)Transferring. CommandID = 11111111. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;12. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAcquireStarted. VehicleID = RGVXX13. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;14. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierInstalled. VehicleID = RGVXX. CarrierID = 123456. CarrierLoc = LOC115. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;16. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierInstalled. VehicleID = RGVXX. CarrierID = 654321. CarrierLoc = LOC217. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;18. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAcquireCompleted. VehicleID = RGVXX19. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;20. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDeparted. VehicleID = RGVXX. TransferPortList  L,11. TransferPort =PORTXX21. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;22. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleArrived. VehicleID = RGVXX. TransferPortList  L,11. TransferPort =PORTYY23. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 24. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDepositStarted. VehicleID = RGVXX25. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 26. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierRemoved. VehicleID = RGVXX. CarrierID = 123456. CarrierLoc = LOC127. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 39 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200535 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS28. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierRemoved. VehicleID = RGVXX. CarrierID = 654321. CarrierLoc = LOC229. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;30. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDeposit-Completed. VehicleID = RGVXX31. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;32. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleUnassigned. VehicleID = RGVXX. CommandID = 11111133. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;34. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferCompleted(Complete parameters). CommandName =TRANSFER. CommandID = 111111. Priority = 5. Replace = 0. ResultCode = 0. CarrierLoc1 = PORTYY. TransferInfo 1  L,31. CarrierID = 1234562. SourcePort = PORTXX3. DestPort = PORTYY. CarrierLoc 2 = PORTYY. TransferInfo 2  L,34. CarrierID = 6543215. SourcePort = PORTXX6. DestPort = PORTYY35. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt; 12.2.4 Carriers Replace12.2.4.1 One carrier is transported from the source port (e.g., stocker output port) to the destination port (e.g.,process equipment port-1) and the other carrier is transported from the same port (process equipment port-1) to thedestination ports (e.g., stocker input port) by the same vehicle. The transport vehicle is capable of acquiring anddepositing these two carriers sequentially. This function is used for the depressuring process equipment with door,because the door opening time should be shorten for this type of equipment.STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. Both carriers are preparedfor a TRANSFER command atthe source ports.

&lt;!-- Page 40 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 36 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS2. Enhanced Remote Command(ERC)TRANSFER. COMMANDID = 111111. PRIORITY = 5. REPLACE = 1. TRANSFERINFO1  L,31. CARRIERID = 1234562. SOURCEPORT =PORTX13. DESTPORT = PORTY1. TRANSFERINFO2  L,34. CARRIERID = 6543215. SOURCEPORT = PORTY16. DESTPORT = PORTZ1 S2,F49-&gt; 3. &lt;-S2,F50 Enhanced Remote CommandAcknowledge (ERCA)4. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferInitiated. CommandID = 1111115. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;6. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAssigned. VehicleID = AGVXX. CommandID = 1111117. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;8. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleArrived. VehicleID = AGVXX. TransferPortList  L,11. TransferPort 1 =PORTX19. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;10. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)Transferring. CommandID = 11111111. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;12. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAcquireStarted. VehicleID = AGVXX13. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;14. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierInstalled. VehicleID = AGVXX. CarrierID = 123456. CarrierLoc = LOC115. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;16. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAcquireCompleted. VehicleID = AGVXX

&lt;!-- Page 41 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200537 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS17. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;18. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDeparted. VehicleID = AGVXX. TransferPortList  L,11. TransferPort 1 =PORTX119. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 20. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleArrived. VehicleID = AGVXX. TransferPortList L,11. TransferPort 1 =PORTY121. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;22. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleAcquireStarted. VehicleID = AGVXX23. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;24. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierInstalled. VehicleID = AGVXX. CarrierID = 654321. CarrierLoc = LOC225. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;26. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDepositStarted. VehicleID = AGVXX27. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;28. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierRemoved. VehicleID = AGVXX. CarrierID = 123456. CarrierLoc = LOC129. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;30. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDepositCompleted. VehicleID = AGVXX31. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;32. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDeparted. VehicleID = AGVXX. TransferPortList  L,11. TransferPort 1 =PORTY133. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 42 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 38 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS34. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleArrived. VehicleID = AGVXX. TransferPortList  L,11. TransferPort 1 =PORTZ135. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;36. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDepositStarted. VehicleID = AGVXX37. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;38. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)CarrierRemoved. VehicleID = AGVXX. CarrierID = 654321. CarrierLoc = LOC239. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;40. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleDepositCompleted. VehicleID = AGVXX41. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;42. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleUnassigned. VehicleID = AGVXX. CommandID = 11111143. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;44. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferCompleted(Complete parameters). CommandName =TRANSFER. CommandID = 111111. Priority = 5. Replace = 1. ResultCode = 0. CarrierLoc 1 = PORTY1. TransferInfo 1  L,31. CarrierID = 1234562. SourcePort = PORTX13. DestPort = PORTY1. CarrierLoc 2 = PORTZ1. TransferInfo 2  L,34. CarrierID = 6543215. SourcePort = PORTY16. DestPort = PORTZ145. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt; 12.3 Anomaly Transport12.3.1 Host-Initiated CANCEL of a TRANSFER Command

&lt;!-- Page 43 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200539 12.3.1.1 The Host wishes to terminate a previously issued TRANSFER command. This could be done so that theHost could issue another TRANSFER command with new command parameter values or so that a PGV couldtransfer the carriers. A Host initiated ABORT scenario would be similar to this scenario except that the remotecommand would be ABORT instead of CANCEL and the states when it is accepted by the TSC are different.STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. The Host desires to CANCELa particular TRANSFERcommand that it hadpreviously issued to theTSC. Outstanding TRANSFERcommand has CommandId =1111112. Host Command Send (HCS)CANCEL. COMMANDID = 111111The COMMANDID must matchthat of the TRANSFERcommand that is beingCANCELed S2,F41-&gt; 3. &lt;-S2,F42 Host Command Acknowledge(HCA)This is the point wherethe TSC would reject theCANCEL command if not inthe QUEUED or WAITINGstate.4. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferCancelInitiated. CommandID = 1111115. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 6. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferCancelCompleted. CommandID = 1111117. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 8. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleUnassigned. VehicleID = CARXX. CommandID = 1111119. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 44 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 40 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS10. The host may now initiateanother TRANSFER commandfor the carrier(s) fromthe TRANSFER command thatwas canceled or allow aPGV to deliver thecarriers.If there were multiplecarriers in the CANCELedTRANSFER then the Host mayelect to issue oneTRANSFER command for allcarriers or individualTRANSFER commands for eachcarrier.The SOURCEPORT in theresulting TRANSFERcommand(s) will be thesame as when the originalTRANSFER was issued sincethe carriers have notmoved. 12.3.2 Host-Initiated Override of a TRANSFER Command12.3.2.1 The Host wishes to override the destination of a previously issued TRANSFER command after thecommand has entered the ACTIVE state. This could be done so that the Host could issue another TRANSFERcommand with a new destination. STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. The Host desires to ABORTa particular TRANSFERcommand that it hadpreviously issued to theTSC. The outstandingTRANSFER command hasCommandID = 1111112. Host Command Send(HCS)ABORT. COMMANDID = 111111The COMMANDID must matchthat of the TRANSFERcommand that is beingABORTed S2,F41-&gt; 3. &lt;-S2,F42 Host Command Acknowledge(HCA)This is the point wherethe TSC would reject theABORT command if it isnot possible for thetransport system toabort the ACTIVETRANSFER command.4. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferAbortInitiated. CommandID = 1111115. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 45 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200541 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS6. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferAbort-Completed. CommandID = 111111. CarrierLoc = LOC1. TransferInfo7. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;8. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)VehicleUnassigned. VehicleID = CARXX. CommandID = 1111119. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;10. The host will now initiateanother TRANSFER commandfor the carrier(s) fromthe TRANSFER command thatwas aborted.11. Enhanced RemoteCommand(ERC)TRANSFER. COMMANDID = 111112. PRIORITY = 5. REPLACE = 0. TRANSFERINFO 1 - L,31. CARRIERID = 1234562. SOURCEPORT =The current location ofthe carrier as sent fromthe TSC to the Host in theTransferCompleted for thefailed TRANSFER command(anexample is a port on avehicle). The Host doesnot have to know thedifference of whether thecarrier is still on thecar or not to send anotherTRANSFER command.3. DESTPORT = PORTYY S2,F49-&gt; 12. &lt;-S2,F50 Enhanced Remote CommandAcknowledge (ERCA)13. Scenario will now follow12.1.1 12.3.3 Unsuccessful Completion of a TRANSFER Command12.3.3.1 The TSC must unsuccessfully complete a previously issued TRANSFER command due to anunrecoverable transport system error. Although this scenario follows the GEM defined scenario for Alarm handling,it was included to define the specifics of an IBSEM alarm and subsequent unsuccessful TRANSFER commandcompletion. The abort of TRANSFER command should be performed by host as described in 12.2.2.STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. &lt;-S5,F1 Alarm Report Send (ARS)Alarm SetUnrecoverable TransportSystem Error. ALID. ALTX

&lt;!-- Page 46 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 42 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS2. Alarm Report Acknowledge(ARA) S5,F2-&gt;3. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferPaused. CommandID4. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;5. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)AlarmSet. All VIDs necessary tofully describe the natureof the unrecoverableerror must be sent to theHost in this event.6. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;7. Human intervention isnecessary to clear theunrecoverable error.8. Note that the ResultCodeis crucial for the Host todetermine that theTRANSFER command hascompleted unsuccessfully.It is equally importantthat the current locationsof all carriers is sent tothe Host in theunsuccessful completionevent. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TransferCompleted. CommandName =TRANSFER. CommandID = 111111. Priority. Replace. ResultCode = Error/\*NonZero\*/. CarrierLoc = LOC1. TransferInfo9. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 10. &lt;-S5,F1 Alarm Report Send (ARS)Alarm ClearedUnrecoverable TransportSystem Error. ALID. ALTX11. Alarm Report Acknowledge(ARA) S5,F2-&gt;12. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)AlarmCleared. All VIDs necessary tofully describe the natureof the unrecoverableerror must be sent to theHost in this event.13. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;

&lt;!-- Page 47 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200543 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS14. The host may now initiateanother TRANSFER commandfor the carrier(s) fromthe TRANSFER command thatwas completedunsuccessfully.If there were multiplecarriers in theunsuccessful TRANSFER thenthe Host may elect toissue one TRANSFER commandfor all carriers orindividual TRANSFERcommands for each carrier.The SOURCEPORT in theresulting TRANSFERcommand(s) may be aninternal vehicle locationor any other locationalong the path of theTRANSFER command. 12.3.4 Connection or Reconnection between TSC and Host12.3.4.1 The Factory Host System crashes (or loses communication with the TSC for a time exceeding all time-outsand retries) and must re-synchronize with the TSC in lieu of several events completing while the communicationlink between the two was down.STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. Communication session betweenhost and TSC (re)established.Host establishescommunication with the TSCper the GEM standard scenario(e.g., S1F13, etc).2. Host Command Send (HCS)PAUSES2,F41-&gt; 3. &lt;-S2,F42 Host Command Acknowledge(HCA)4. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TSCPauseInitiated5. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA) S6,F12-&gt;6. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TSCPauseCompleted. CommandName = PAUSE. ResultCode = 07. S6,F12-&gt;8. Selected Equipment StatusRequest (SSR). ActiveCarriers. ActiveVehicles. ActiveTransfers S1,F3-&gt; HOST asks for carrierand vehicle information

&lt;!-- Page 48 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 44 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS9. &lt;-S1,F4 Selected EquipmentStatus Data (SSD). CarrierInfo - L,3.. (one CarrierInfofor each carrier).. VehicleInfo - L,2.. (one VehicleInfofor each vehicle).. TransferCommand - L,n.. (oneTransferCommand for each. Active TRANSFERcommand)10. The HOST updates its model ofthe system with theinformation from the vehicleand carrier status data.11. Host Command Send (HCS)RESUMES2,F41-&gt; HOST enables the systemto continue operations.12. &lt;-S2,F42 Host Command Acknowledge(HCA)13. &lt;-S6,F11 Event Report Send (ERS)TSCAutoCompleted14. Event Report Acknowledge(ERA)S6,F12-&gt; 15. System continuesprocessing all commandsthat were in process orqueued before/during theHost crash orcommunicationloss/initialization.System will also nowprocess new commands. 12.4 Database OperationSTEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. The host desires to upate theTSC database with informationassociated with carrier 1232. Host Command Send (HCS)INFOUPDATE. CARRIERID = 123. LOTID = LOT456. OPERATION = OP480 S2,F41-&gt; The Lot and Operationinformation associatedwith the carrier aresent to the TSC. 3. &lt;-S2,F42 Host Command Acknowledge(HCA) STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. The host desires to removethe LotID associated withcarrier 123 from the TSCdatabase

&lt;!-- Page 49 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 200545 STEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS2. Host Command Send (HCS)INFOUPDATE. CARRIERID = 123. LOTID =  S2,F41-&gt; 3. &lt;-S2,F42 Host Command Acknowledge(HCA) 12.5 Stage Delete CommandSTEP COMMENTS HOST TSC COMMENTS1. The host desires to deleteALL Stage commands.2. Host Command Send (HCS)STAGEDELETES2,F41-&gt; All stage commands aredeleted. No parametersare included in themessage.3. &lt;-S2,F42 Host Command Acknowledge(HCA) 13 GEM Capabilities13.1 The purpose of this section is to specify any SEMI E30 additional capabilities that are required to be supportedby this class of equipment.13.2 Requirement13.2.1 This standard requires that the SEMI E30 fundamental requirements and additional capabilities have beenimplemented on the IBSEM equipment with the exception of Trace Data Collection, Remote Control, ProcessProgram Management, and Limits Monitoring and Spooling. The TRANSFER Command State Model will serve asthe Equipment Processing State Model specified in SEMI E30. If these capabilities are implemented, they will beimplemented as required by SEMI E30. The SEMI E30 additional capabilities required by IBSEM are: Establish Communications, Dynamic Event Report Configuration, Variable Data Collection, Status Data Collection, Alarm Management, Equipment Constants, Equipment Terminal Services, Clock, and Control (host-initiated).

&lt;!-- Page 50 --&gt;

SEMI E82-0705 © SEMI 1999, 2005 46 RELATED INFORMATION 1IBSEM UNIQUE CAPABILITIES NOTICE: This related information is not an official part of SEMI E82, but was approved for publication by fullletter ballot procedures.R1-1 Transfer Command Message Examples (SML Format)R1-1.1 Variable data values specified in the following TRANSFER commands have been chosen arbitrarily for thepurpose of demonstrating message structure/content.R1-1.2 Transfer Command Message Example for a Single Carrier TransferS2,F49 /\* DATAID \*/ /\* OBJSPEC \*/ /\* RCMD \*/ /\* CPNAME 1 \*/ /\* CPNAME \*/ /\* CPVAL \*/&gt; /\* CPNAME \*/ /\* CPVAL \*/&gt; /\* CPNAME \*/ /\* CPVAL \*/&gt;&gt;&gt; /\* CPNAME 2 \*/ /\* CPNAME \*/ /\* CPVAL \*/